CMS Manual System Department of Health &
 Human Services (DHHS)

Pub 100-04 Medicare Claims Processing Centers for Medicare &
 Medicaid Services (CMS)

Transmittal 3102 Date: November 3, 2014

 Change Request 8967

NOTE: This Transmittal is no longer sensitive and is being re-communicated 11-12-2014. The
Transmittal Number, date of Transmittal and all other information remains the same. This
instruction may now be posted to the Internet.

SUBJECT: Calendar Year (CY) 2015 Participation Enrollment and Medicare Participating
Physicians and Suppliers Directory (MEDPARD) Procedures

I. SUMMARY OF CHANGES: This instruction furnishes contractors with the information needed for the
2015 participation enrollment. The attached Recurring Update Notification applies to Chapter 1, Section
30.3.12.

EFFECTIVE DATE: November 3, 2014
*Unless otherwise specified, the effective date is the date of service.
IMPLEMENTATION DATE: November 7, 2014

Disclaimer for manual changes only: The revision date and transmittal number apply only to red
italicized material. Any other material was previously published and remains unchanged. However, if this
revision contains a table of contents, you will receive the new/revised information only, and not the entire
table of contents.

II. CHANGES IN MANUAL INSTRUCTIONS: (N/A if manual is not updated)
R=REVISED, N=NEW, D=DELETED-Only One Per Row.

R/N/D CHAPTER / SECTION / SUBSECTION / TITLE
N/A N/A

III. FUNDING:
For Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs):
The Medicare Administrative Contractor is hereby advised that this constitutes technical direction as defined
in your contract. CMS does not construe this as a change to the MAC statement of Work. The contractor is
not obliged to incur costs in excess of the amounts allotted in your contract unless and until specifically
authorized by the Contracting Officer. If the contractor considers anything provided, as described above, to
be outside the current scope of work, the contractor shall withhold performance on the part(s) in question
and immediately notify the Contracting Officer, in writing or by e-mail, and request formal directions
regarding continued performance requirements.

IV. ATTACHMENTS:

Recurring Update Notification
 Attachment - Recurring Update Notification

Pub. 100-04 Transmittal: 3102 Date: November 3, 2014 Change Request: 8967

SUBJECT: Calendar Year (CY) 2015 Participation Enrollment and Medicare Participating
Physicians and Suppliers Directory (MEDPARD) Procedures

EFFECTIVE DATE: November 3, 2014
*Unless otherwise specified, the effective date is the date of service.
IMPLEMENTATION DATE: November 7, 2014

I. GENERAL INFORMATION

A. Background: Contractors conduct an enrollment period on an annual basis in order to provide
eligible physicians, practitioners and suppliers with an opportunity to make their calendar year Medicare
participation decision by December 31. Providers (physicians, practitioners, or suppliers) who want to
maintain their current PAR status (PAR or non PAR) do not need to take any action in the upcoming annual
participation enrollment program. To sign a participating agreement is to agree to accept assignment for all
covered services that are provided to Medicare patients. After the enrollment period ends, contractors
publish an updated list of participating physicians, practitioners, and suppliers in their local MEDPARDs on
their Web sites.

B. Policy: The annual participation enrollment program for CY 2015 will commence on November 14,
2014, and will run through December 31, 2014.

The purpose of this Recurring Update Notification is to furnish contractors with information needed for the
CY 2015 participation enrollment effort. The following documents are attached:

 A Participation Announcement; and

 A Blank Participation Agreement.

Contractors shall mail the participation enrollment postcard as directed in Publication 100-04, Chapter 1,
section 30.3.12. Contractors shall place the new fees (physician fee schedule fees and anesthesia
conversion factors) on their Web site for providers to access and download. The information
contained in this Recurring Update Notification must be kept CONFIDENTIAL until the Physician
Fee Schedule Final Rule is put on display. Fees should not be posted on the Web or be mailed until
after the final rule is put on display.

Contractors will not receive a Special Edition (SE) Medicare Learning Network (MLN) Matters article
related to this Change Request (CR), however, be sure to post the following language on your Web site:

"We encourage you to visit the Medicare Learning Network® (MLN) (http://go.cms.gov/MLNGenInfo) the
place for official CMS Medicare Fee-For-Service provider educational information. There you can find one
of our most popular products, MLN Matters national provider education articles. These articles help you
understand new or changed Medicare policy and how those changes affect you. A full array of other
educational products (including Web-based training courses, hard copy and downloadable publications,
and CD-ROMs) are also available and can be accessed at: http://go.cms.gov/MLNProducts . You can also
find other important physician Web sites by visiting the Physician Center Web page at:
http://www.cms.gov/Center/Provider-Type/Physician-Center.html?redirect=/center/physician.asp .
 In addition to educational products, the MLN also offers providers and suppliers opportunities to learn
more about the Medicare program through MLN National Provider Calls. These national conference calls,
held by CMS for the Medicare Fee-For-Service provider and supplier community, educate and inform
participants about new policies and/or changes to the Medicare program. Offered free of charge, continuing
education credits may be awarded for participation in certain National Provider Calls. To learn more about
MLN National Provider Calls including upcoming calls, registration information, and links to previous call
materials, visit http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Outreach/NPC/index.html ."

In CR 7412 (Postcard Mailing for the Annual Participation Open Enrollment Period), CMS directed
contractors to mail a postcard instead of a CD. The postcards should be mailed in time for physicians,
practitioners, and suppliers to receive the participation enrollment material by November 14, but should not
be mailed before November 8.

The CMS plans to release the 2015 Medicare Physician Fee Schedule File, including the anesthesia file, to
contractors electronically in late October. This data must also be kept confidential until the physician fee
schedule final rule is put on display. CMS will send all contractors an e-mail notice when the Physician Fee
Schedule Final Rule has been put on display.

II. BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS TABLE

"Shall" denotes a mandatory requirement, and "should" denotes an optional requirement.

Number Requirement Responsibility Other
8967.1
 Contractors shall mail postcards announcing the A/B D Shared-
 annual open participation enrollment by November 14, MAC M System
 2014, but not before November 8, 2014.
 E Maintainers

 A B H F MV C
 H M I C MW
 HAS S S F
 CS

 X

 See the Internet Only Manual (IOM) Pub. 100-04,
 Chapter 1, section 30.3.12.1 B1.

8967.2 Contractors shall display the fee data prominently on X
 their Web site.

 For CY 2015 disclosure reports, contractors shall use
 the following format for displaying fees on the Web
 and/or hardcopy:

 Procedure code (including professional and
 technical component modifiers, as applicable);

 Par amount (non-facility);

 Par amount (facility-based);

 Non-par amount (non-facility);

 Limiting charge (non-facility);
 Number Requirement Responsibility Other

 Non-par amount (facility-based); A/B D Shared-
 Limiting charge (facility-based); MAC M System
 EHR Limiting Charge;
 PQRS Limiting Charge; E Maintainers
 EHR/ 2014 eRx-Limiting Charge;
 EHR + PQRS Limiting Charge and A B H F MV C
 EHR/ 2014 eRx + PQRS Limiting Charge H M I C MW
 HAS S S F
 CS

8967.3 Contractors shall provide a link to the 2015 Medicare X
 Fee Schedule on their Web site.

 NOTE: Disclosure materials may not be posted on
 your Web site until you receive notification from CMS
 that the Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule has been
 put on display.

8967.4 For CY 2015 disclosure reports, contractors shall X
 provide the anesthesia conversion factors on their Web
 site.

8967.5 Contractors shall display the fee schedule using a X
 provider friendly format from which providers can
 download their particular locality. Providers should
 not have to download the whole fee schedule file.

8967.6 Contractors shall post the following language on your X
 Web site:

 "We encourage you to visit the Medicare Learning
 Network® (MLN) (http://go.cms.gov/MLNGenInfo)
 the place for official CMS Medicare Fee-For-Service
 provider educational information. There you can find
 one of our most popular products, MLN Matters
 national provider education articles. These articles
 help you understand new or changed Medicare policy
 and how those changes affect you. A full array of
 other educational products (including Web-based
 training courses, hard copy and downloadable
 publications, and CD-ROMs) are also available and
 can be accessed at: http://go.cms.gov/MLNProducts .
 You can also find other important physician Web sites
 Number Requirement Responsibility

 by visiting the Physician Center Web page at: A/B D Shared- Other
 http://www.cms.gov/Center/Provider-Type/Physician- MAC M System
 Center.html?redirect=/center/physician.asp .
 E Maintainers

 A B H F MV C
 H M I C MW
 HAS S S F
 CS

 In addition to educational products, the MLN also
 offers providers and suppliers opportunities to learn
 more about the Medicare program through MLN
 National Provider Calls. These national conference
 calls, held by CMS for the Medicare Fee-For-Service
 provider and supplier community, educate and inform
 participants about new policies and/or changes to the
 Medicare program. Offered free of charge, continuing
 education credits may be awarded for participation in
 certain National Provider Calls. To learn more about
 MLN National Provider Calls including upcoming
 calls, registration information, and links to previous
 call materials, visit http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-
 and-Education/Outreach/NPC/index.html ."

8967.7 Effective immediately, contractors shall educate X
 providers via their Web site and whatever other
 provider outreach that can be utilized that the fees will
 be placed on the contractor Web site after the CY
 2015 physician fee schedule regulation is put on
 display.

8967.8 Contractors shall prominently display the X
 announcement and participation agreement on the
 Web site.

8967.9 Contractors shall insert their Web site address for X
 providers to use to access the CY 2015 payment rates
 in the space available at the end of the Participation
 Announcement sheet.

8967.10 Contractors shall insert their contractor-specific X
 information (i.e., toll-free telephone numbers, etc.) in
 the blank lines as indicated at the end of the
 Participation Announcement sheet.

8967.11 Contractors shall inform providers via their listserv X
 when the CY 2015 fees are posted to their Web site.

8967.12 Contractors shall NOT produce hard copy disclosures X
 until you receive notification from CMS.

 NOTE: When notified, contractors have the
 Number Requirement Responsibility

 discretion to produce no more than 2 percent hardcopy A/B D Shared- Other
 if needed. MAC M System

 E Maintainers

 A B H F MV C
 H M I C MW
 HAS S S F
 CS

8967.12.1 Contractors shall keep track of any requests for hard X
 copy paper disclosures.

8967.12.2 Contractors shall not charge providers requesting hard X
 copy disclosures who do not have Internet access.

8967.12.3 Contractors shall mail the hard copy disclosures via X
 first class or equivalent delivery service.

8967.13 The MPFSDB will contain the CY 2015 fee schedule X
 amounts. Contractors shall include fee amounts for
 procedure codes with status indicators of A, T, and R
 (if Relative Value Units (RVUs) have been established
 by CMS). The following statements must be included
 on the fee disclosure reports:

 All Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes
 and descriptors are copyrighted 2014 by the American
 Medical Association. 

 These amounts apply when service is performed in a
 facility setting. (This statement should be made
 applicable to those services subject to a differential
 based on place of service.)

 The payment for the technical component is capped
 at the OPPS amount. (This statement should be made
 applicable to services in which the technical portion
 was capped at the Outpatient Prospective Payment
 System amount.)

 "Limiting Charge reduced based on the EHR Negative
 adjustment program."

 "Limiting Charge reduced based on the PQRS
 Negative adjustment program."

 "Limiting Charge reduced for EPs that are subject to
 both EHR and PQRS Negative adjustment program."

 See the Internet Only Manual (IOM) Pub. 100-04,
 Chapter 1, section 30.3.12.1.

8967.14 If contractors choose to use code descriptors on their X
 Number Requirement Responsibility Other

 Web site, they must use the short descriptors A/B D Shared-
 contained in the Healthcare Common Procedure MAC M System
 Coding System (HCPCS) file and the MPFSDB. If
 contractors find descriptor discrepancies between E Maintainers
 these two files, use the HCPCS file short descriptor.
 A B H F MV C
 H M I C MW
 HAS S S F
 CS

 NOTE: The CMS has signed agreements with the
 American Medical Association regarding use of CPT,
 and the American Dental Association regarding use of
 Current Dental Terminology (CDT), on Medicare
 contractor Web sites, CD-ROMs, bulletin boards, and
 other electronic communications (refer to the IOM
 Publication 100-04, Chapter 23, section 20.7).

8967.15 Contractors shall process participation elections and X
 withdraws post-marked before January 1, 2015.

8967.16 Contractors shall not print hardcopy participation X
 directories (i.e., MEDPARDs) for CY 2015 without
 regional office prior authorization and advanced
 approved funding for this purpose.

8967.17 If contractors receive inquiries from a customer who X
 does not have access to the contractor Web site, they
 shall ascertain the nature and scope of each request
 and furnish the desired MEDPARD participation
 information via phone or letter.

8967.18 Contractors shall load their local MEDPARD X
 information for providers on their Web site within 30
 days following the close of the annual participation
 enrollment process.

8967.19 Contractors shall notify providers via regularly X
 scheduled newsletters as to the availability of the
 MEDPARD information and how to access it
 electronically.

8967.20 Contractors shall also inform hospitals and other X
 organizations (i.e., Social Security offices, area
 Administration on Aging offices, and other
 beneficiary advocacy organizations) how to access
 MEDPARD information on your Web site.

8967.21 Contractors shall make sure that the Form CMS-460 is X
 readily available on their web sites in order for their
 providers to complete needed information and
 Number Requirement Responsibility Other
 download for their use.
 A/B D Shared-
 MAC M System

 E Maintainers

 A B H F MV C
 H M I C MW
 HAS S S F
 CS

8967.21.1 Contractors shall allow providers to enter all required X
 information (except for the signature and effective
 date in item 2) before printing. Then, the provider will
 only have to print out the Form CMS-460, sign it, and
 mail it to the contractor.

8967.22 Contractors shall protect all parts of the Form CMS- X
 460 that do not require data entry from being altered.
 (The provider can only be allowed to enter their
 required information, and not change any other parts
 of the Form CMS-460).

8967.23 Contractors shall continue to plug-in the January 1, X
 (appropriate year), effective date in item 2 of the Form
 CMS-460 included on your web site.

8967.24 If possible, contractors shall provide a count of the X
 number of page views that the 2015 Participation
 Announcement receives from your Web site.

8967.24.1 This count shall begin November 14, 2014, through X
 December 31, 2014.

8967.24.2 Contractors shall email results of the count to the X
 central office (CO) contact no later than January 31,
 2015. The CO contact is:

 Mark.Baldwin@cms.hhs.gov

8967.25 Contractors shall refer to the IOM Pub. 100-04, X
 Chapter 1, section 30.3.12.1 for more information
 about the postcard mailing and Web site.

III. PROVIDER EDUCATION TABLE Responsibility
Number Requirement

 A/B D C

 MAC M E

 ED

 ABH I

 HM

 HA

 C
 Number Requirement Responsibility

 A/B D C

 MAC M E

 ED

 ABH I

 HM

 HA

 C

 None

IV. SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Section A: Recommendations and supporting information associated with listed requirements:

"Should" denotes a recommendation.

X-Ref Recommendations or other supporting information:

Requirement

Number

Section B: All other recommendations and supporting information: N/A

V. CONTACTS

Pre-Implementation Contact(s): Mark Baldwin, 410-786-8139 or Mark.baldwin@cms.hhs.gov

Post-Implementation Contact(s): Contact your Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).

VI. FUNDING

Section A: For Medicare Administrative Contractors (MACs):
The Medicare Administrative Contractor is hereby advised that this constitutes technical direction as defined
in your contract. CMS does not construe this as a change to the MAC Statement of Work. The contractor is
not obligated to incur costs in excess of the amounts allotted in your contract unless and until specifically
authorized by the Contracting Officer. If the contractor considers anything provided, as described above, to
be outside the current scope of work, the contractor shall withhold performance on the part(s) in question
and immediately notify the Contracting Officer, in writing or by e-mail, and request formal directions
regarding continued performance requirements.

ATTACHMENTS: 2
 Announcement

 About Medicare Participation for Calendar Year 2015

We wish to emphasize the importance and advantages of being a Medicare participating (PAR) provider,
and we are pleased that the favorable trend of participation continued into 2014 with a participation rate of
96.6 percent. As you plan for 2015 and become familiar with the coming changes, we are hopeful that you
will continue to be a PAR provider or, if you are non-participating (Non-PAR), will consider becoming a
PAR provider.

With the help of health care professionals across the country, the Medicare program is improving
faster than ever. The growth in spending per beneficiary is at an all-time low, which means that the
part B beneficiary premium will not increase in 2015. At the same time, the quality of care received
by Medicare beneficiaries continues to improve as indicated by lower hospital readmission rates,
significant reductions in health care acquired conditions, and other measures. And, with your help,
we can build upon these successes in the coming year by promoting the use of new preventive
services and other strategies geared toward disease prevention, early detection, and lifestyle modifications
that support a healthier life.

WHY BECOME A PARTICIPATING MEDICARE PROVIDER

All physicians, practitioners and suppliers must make their calendar year (CY) 2015 Medicare participation
decision by December 31, 2014. Providers who want to maintain their current PAR status, or Non-PAR
status do not need to take any action during the upcoming annual participation enrollment period. To sign a
participation agreement is to agree to accept assignment for all covered services that you provide to
Medicare patients in CY 2015. The overwhelming majority of physicians, practitioners and suppliers have
chosen to participate in Medicare. As indicated, during CY 2014, 96.6 percent of all physicians and
practitioners are billing under Medicare participation agreements.

If you participate and you bill for services paid under the Medicare physician fee schedule (MPFS), your
Medicare fee schedule amounts are 5 percent higher than if you do not participate.

WHAT TO DO

If you choose to be a PAR physician in CY 2015:

 Do nothing if you are currently participating, or

 If you are not currently a Medicare participant, complete the available blank agreement and mail it
 (or a copy) to each Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC) to which you submit Part B claims.
 (On the form show the name(s) and identification number(s) under which you bill.)

If you decide not to participate in CY 2015:

 Do nothing if you are currently not participating, or

 If you are currently a participant, write to each MAC to which you submit claims, advising of the
 termination of your participation in the participating physician program effective January 1, 2015.
 This written notice must be postmarked prior to January 1, 2015.
 We hope you will decide to be a Medicare participant in CY 2015. Please call if you
have any questions or need further information on participation.

The Medicare Learning Network® (MLN) has developed products in an effort to educate Medicare
providers about important Medicare enrollment information. These MLN® products also provide education
to Medicare providers on how to use the Internet-based Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System
(PECOS) to enroll in the Medicare Program and maintain their enrollment information. A list of products is
available at http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Provider-Enrollment-and-
Certification/MedicareProviderSupEnroll/Downloads/Medicare_Provider-
Supplier_Enrollment_National_Education_Products.pdf on The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services (CMS) website.

To view updates and the latest information about Medicare, or to obtain telephone numbers of the various
MAC contacts including the MAC medical directors, please visit the CMS web site at http://www.cms.gov/.
For ____ (MAC name) _____, you may contact the following toll-free number(s) for assistance:

Ebola Information and Resources

The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) are working with our federal partners, in particular
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), to respond to and prevent the further spread of the
Ebola Virus Disease (Ebola) within the United States.

The CDC has developed resources and recommendations on Ebola transmission infection prevention and
control. We encourage you to visit the CDC Ebola Virus Disease website frequently for the latest
information including screening and other recommendations and fact sheets for the healthcare community
and updated Ebola case information. Updated information from CMS on this topic will be shared through
the Medicare Learning Network (MLN), such as the MLN Connects Provider eNewsletter.

There are a number of actions that you can put into practice in your healthcare setting that include the
following:

 Be sure to reach out to, and coordinate with, your local public health and emergency management
 colleagues. Acquaint yourself with emergency plans, and best points of contact.

 Post the CDC checklist and Do's and Don'ts in patient care areas.
 Ensure that you take a travel history from any patient presenting with a febrile illness or

 gastrointestinal symptoms. If a patient has been in Liberia, Sierra Leone or Guinea in the past
 21 days, OR has had contact with a healthcare worker who was taking care of EVD patients in
 the past 21 days AND is febrile, they require immediate special precautions. It can be
 challenging to differentiate flu-like illness from the early symptoms of Ebola Virus Disease. A travel
 history is essential!
 Make sure that your practice setting can implement your plan to handle patients who are ill and can
 appropriately isolate the patient in a private room with a private bathroom if possible. Use the
 highest level of personal protective equipment available in your setting until you consult with your
 local health department or the CDC.
 And as always, remember the importance of protecting your patients from seasonal influenza.
 Encourage them to take the annual flu vaccine that is appropriate for them. You, your staff and their
 family members should receive flu vaccines, as well. For more information on the seasonal flu and
 the flu vaccine visit Flu.gov.

For additional, specific guidance read the CDC's Infection Prevention and Control Recommendations. The
checklist can be found at http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/pdf/could-it-be-ebola.pdf. The Do's and Don'ts can
be found at http://www.cdc.gov/vhf/ebola/pdf/ambulatory-care-evaluation-of-patients-with-possible-
ebola.pdf.
 The Health Insurance Marketplace Expanding Health Insurance Coverage:

A primary goal of the Affordable Care Act is to help uninsured and other eligible Americans gain access to
quality, affordable health care. Central to this goal was the creation of the Health Insurance Marketplace.
Through the Marketplace, more than 8 million eligible Americans enrolled in a private health plan. Now no
one will be denied coverage on the basis of pre-existing conditions and there are no more lifetime or annual
limits. As with last year, expect to see a growing number of previously uninsured patients newly covered by
private health insurance plans and, in a growing number of states, expanded Medicaid eligibility. Many of
these private health plans continue to develop their provider networks.

For those of you whose practices are considered small businesses, please be aware of exciting enhancements
to the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP). Beginning on November 15, 2014, new online
functionality and tools will be launched. In some states, employers will be able to provide multiple plan
options to employees while receiving one bill and making one payment each month. For 2014 and 2015, the
SHOP Marketplace is open to employers with 50 or fewer employees (FTEs). If you have fewer than 25
employees, you may qualify for tax credits if you buy insurance through SHOP. For more information on
SHOP, please see: https://www.healthcare.gov/small-businesses/. To see how much the tax credit could be
worth to your bottom line, click on this SHOP tax credit estimator: https://www.healthcare.gov/small-
business-tax-credit-calculator/.

This year, the Open Enrollment period for 2015 coverage is November 15, 2014 to February 15, 2015. New
consumers may apply for coverage in a Marketplace plan with coverage beginning as early as January 1,
2015.

You may want to inform your patients who are currently enrolled in Marketplace plans that they should
make sure they are in the right plan for 2015. They can visit HealthCare.gov or call the Marketplace Call
Center to report a change or view their 2015 Marketplace application. During the Open Enrollment Period
from November 15, 2014 to February 15, 2015, they can shop in the Marketplace to find a plan that meets
their needs for the new coverage year. After February 15, 2015, most people can't enroll or make changes
to their plan until the next Open Enrollment Period starting in late 2015.

As a trusted source for health information, your patients may look to you for help navigating the
Marketplace. Resources concerning the Marketplace that you may find helpful to direct them to may be
found at:

 Marketplace.cms.gov: Where organizations and individuals looking for help can get the latest
 resources and learn more about the Marketplace.
 HealthCare.gov: Where individuals can learn about the Marketplace and the upcoming benefits
 (including where they can find local assistance), or be connected to appropriate resources in states
 that are running their own Marketplace.
 Health Insurance Marketplace Call Center: If you have questions, call 1-800-318-2596. TTY
 users should call 1-855-889-4325.
 SHOP (Small Business) Marketplace Call Center: If you have questions, call 1-800-706-7893
 (TTY: 711).

At Marketplace.cms.gov, there are two articles particularly relevant for clinicians: 10 Things Providers
Need to Know and 10 Things to Tell Your Patients, both available at
http://marketplace.cms.gov/outreach-and-education/new-to-marketplace.html.

New Payment and Care Delivery Model Tests at the CMS Innovation Center:

Physicians can directly participate in health care transformation through the CMS Innovation Center which
is charged with identifying, testing, and evaluating new payment and service delivery models that show
promise of providing better access to quality care at lower costs for beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid and
 the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The Innovation Center offers opportunities for innovators
working in the field to share ideas, contribute to the discussion of improvements in health care, and
participate in model tests.

More than 37,000 providers in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico are currently
participating in over twenty Innovation Center payment and service delivery model tests, serving an
estimated 2.5 million beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP. Participants include states,
organizations, and a broad array of health care professionals, as well as other stakeholders in the health care
community. Millions of other Americans are benefiting from Innovation Center quality improvement
initiatives and the engagement of other payers in model tests. Health care transformation initiatives at the
state level now encompass more than 60 percent of providers nationwide and over 60 percent of the US
population. These models are reducing costs in Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP and enhancing the quality of
care that our beneficiaries receive.
The broad engagement of providers across the country in innovative payment and service delivery models is
leading to improvement. Medicare per capita spending growth rates have reached historic lows, and hospital
readmission rates have declined meaningfully. We encourage you to visit the CMS Innovation Center
website at www.innovation.cms.gov for further information and for announcements of new opportunities
including large scale transformation of clinical practices to accomplish our aims of better care and better
health at lower costs. The result would be transformed clinical practices characterized by the delivery of
high quality care, population-based care, cost-savings, and improved workflow.

We also encourage physicians to join Million Hearts, a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
initiative co-led by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and CMS. This initiative is aimed at
preventing 1 million heart attacks and strokes by 2017. Joining this effort means working with your staff
and patients to excel in the ABCS: aspirin for those patients at risk; blood pressure control; cholesterol
management; and smoking cessation. The initial milestone in Million Hearts is better blood pressure control
for the 67 million Americans with hypertension, 36 million of whom are not yet under control. Please visit
http://millionhearts.hhs.gov for resources that can be helpful. For questions, contact the Million Hearts team
at millionhearts@cms.hhs.gov.

Primary Care Incentives:

In 2015, CMS will continue to make a 10 percent incentive payment for primary care services furnished by
primary care practitioners as authorized by the Affordable Care Act. To be eligible for this incentive
payment, a physician's Medicare specialty needs to be family medicine, geriatric medicine, pediatric
medicine, or internal medicine, and primary care services need to constitute 60 percent of Medicare Part B
outpatient services (excluding services provided to hospital inpatients or those in emergency departments) in
2012. Nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, and physician assistants are also eligible for these
incentive payments. Also please see the Special Edition MLN Matters® Article developed by the Medicare
Learning Network®. The article provides a list of questions and answers that respond to the inquiries CMS
has received about the Primary Care Incentive Program. The article can be found at
http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
MLN/MLNMattersArticles/downloads/mm7060.pdf on the CMS website.

New for 2015, Medicare will pay for the care coordination for Medicare beneficiaries with two or more
chronic conditions. Payments will be made for calendar months in which at least 20 minutes of care are
furnished, but a face-to-face visit is not required. In 2015, Medicare will continue to make payments to
physicians to coordinate a patient's care during their transition back to the community following a discharge
from a hospital or nursing facility. More information on billing for this service is available at:
http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
MLN/MLNProducts/Downloads/Transitional-Care-Management-Services-Fact-Sheet-ICN908628.pdf. We
also answer frequently asked questions on billing for this service: http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-
Fee-for-Service-Payment/PhysicianFeeSched/Downloads/FAQ-TCMS.pdf.
 Medicare Shared Savings Program:

Currently, over 135,500 physicians participate in Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs) in the Medicare
Shared Savings Program. When an ACO succeeds in both delivering high-quality care and lowering growth
in Medicare spending on patients its providers serve, it may share in the savings it achieves for the Medicare
program. In the first year of the program, we shared over $300 million in savings with 53 ACOs.

Eligible professionals (EPs), (i.e. physicians and other practitioners), in an ACO that successfully reports the
Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS) Group Practice Reporting Option (GPRO) option web interface
quality measures required under the Shared Savings Program in any year of the program will be deemed
eligible for the PQRS bonus and/or avoid the PQRS payment adjustment, regardless of whether the ACO
qualifies to share in savings. In addition, EPs participating in the Shared Savings Program will satisfy your
Clinical Quality Measure (CQM) reporting requirements for the Electronic Health Record (EHR) Incentive
Program if the ACO satisfactorily reports quality measure data via the ACO GPRO web interface and the
EPs meet the other program requirements for Meaningful Use Stage 2. Groups of physicians that participate
in an ACO are also exempt from the application of the 2016 Value-Based Payment Modifier (VM)
adjustment.

We encourage physicians and other practitioners to collaborate with your ACOs so that together you can
achieve the goals of the program including successful reporting and performance on quality measures.

We encourage you to consider forming or joining an ACO under the Medicare Shared Savings Program.
Please visit the Medicare Shared Savings Program webpage for more information about the program
including how to apply or learn about ACOs in your area - http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-
Service-Payment/sharedsavingsprogram/

Engaging Physicians in Quality:

CMS recognizes that physician practices vary and measurement must be meaningful and relevant to clinical
practice. Engaging in quality reporting and improvement requires significant time and resources from
providers and their practices. Thus, developing quality programs that maximize flexibility, while
minimizing burden, is critical. This principle is reflected in ongoing improvements to CMS quality
programs, such as:

 Providers can choose quality measures that best reflect their practice and how they are reported
 to CMS;

 Many providers may be able to report quality measures one time during the 2015 program year in
 order to avoid the 2017 PQRS negative payment adjustment, satisfy the CQM component of the
 Medicare EHR Incentive Program, and satisfy requirements regarding the 2016 VM adjustment.
 Please note that this option applies to specific reporting options. Please read program
 requirements for more information; website URLs for each program are listed below;

 Providers and others can contribute new quality measures through open calls for measures and
 advocate for measures through the Measures Application Partnership (MAP). For More
 information about the MAP, please visit:
 http://www.qualityforum.org/Setting_Priorities/Partnership/Measure_Applications_Partnership.a
 spx;

 CMS is aligning related measures across CMS programs and collaborating with private payers to
 reduce provider reporting burden;

 Providers have over 5 mechanisms available for PQRS reporting, allowing providers to choose a
 mechanism that works best for them;

 The availability of the MLN® YouTube video regarding Implications for the Value-Based
 Payment Modifier can be found at: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxIiW33jkSs.
 CMS believes that providers are leaders in quality improvement. CMS will continue its efforts to
collaborate with physicians and other healthcare professionals to facilitate quality improvement through
quality reporting programs such as the PQRS and pay for performance programs such as the VM
program. The VM program links quality to payment by providing differential payment to physicians
based on the quality and cost of care furnished to Medicare patients.

Availability of the 2013 Quality and Resource Use Reports (QRURs):

On September 30, 2014, CMS provided QRURs to all groups of physicians and to solo practitioners. The
2013 QRURs contain data regarding quality and cost of care for calendar year 2013. This is the same
performance period that was used to calculate the VM that will be applied to physician payments for items
and services furnished under the MPFS for groups of 100 or more EPs in 2015. For physicians and groups
of physicians in groups of 100 or more EPs, the QRURs will provide information on how the group's quality
and cost performance will affect their 2015 Medicare payments through the application of the VM. VM
payment adjustments will not be applied to groups of fewer than 100 EPs in 2015.

For group practices with fewer than 100 EPs and for solo practitioners, the QRUR is for informational
purposes. It can help your group understand and improve the quality and efficiency of care it provides to
Medicare beneficiaries. The reports provide detailed information about the beneficiaries your practice
services including information on where they were hospitalized and for what conditions. You may get
information on how to access your report at: https://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-
Payment/PhysicianFeedbackProgram/Self-Nomination-Registration.html.

Medicare and Medicaid EHR Incentive Programs:

In 2015, providers will report using the 2014 edition of the Certified Electronic Health Record Technology
(CEHRT) and will use the 2014 definition of meaningful use for Stage 1 or Stage 2 as appropriate.
Returning providers will report for the entire calendar year and attest between January 1 through February
29, 2016. Providers who are attesting for the first time will report for any consecutive 90 days in the
calendar year to avoid a Medicare payment adjustment. These providers are not eligible for Medicare
incentives, but may be eligible for a Medicaid incentive.

In order to align programs and reduce the burden on physicians and providers, physicians may
simultaneously submit CQM data for both the Medicare EHR Incentive Program and the PQRS program
electronically. Eligible hospitals and critical access hospitals may do the same through the Inpatient Quality
Reporting Program. All physicians and providers beyond the first year of demonstrating meaningful use
will be able to report clinical quality measures electronically. For more information about the EHR
Incentive Programs visit www.cms.gov/EHRIncentivePrograms.

Those who fail to meet meaningful use for the applicable period may be subject to a payment adjustment to
their Medicare claims. In 2015, the result will be payment of 99% of the MPFS amount. EPs must
successfully demonstrate meaningful use every year to avoid the Medicare payment adjustments.
Demonstration of meaningful use in 2015 will enable providers to avoid the payment adjustment in 2017.
Providers who did not successfully demonstrate meaningful use in 2014 will receive a payment adjustment
in 2016. Providers also have the option of filing a significant hardship exception application by July 1,
2015. Don't wait until the last minute to meet meaningful use! For more information about payment
adjustments, please visit http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-
Guidance/Legislation/EHRIncentivePrograms/Downloads/PaymentAdj_HardshipExcepTipSheetforEP.pdf.

The MLN® has also developed a quick reference guide about EHR reporting. This educational tool is
available at http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
MLN/MLNProducts/Downloads/PQRS-EHR-Incentive-Pilot-Quick-Ref-Guide.pdf on the CMS website.
 Incentives and Payment Adjustments for Quality Reporting:

EPs should note that 2015 will also serve as the reporting period for the 2017 PQRS payment adjustment.
The payment adjustment for 2017 based on 2015 reporting is negative 2.0%. The reporting requirements to
avoid the 2017 PQRS payment adjustment are detailed in the CYs 2014 and 2015 MPFS Final Rules. More
information will be available on the program websites (links below) soon.

Please use the links below for more detailed information about CMS quality reporting programs.

PQRS website: http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Quality-Initiatives-Patient-Assessment-
Instruments/PQRS/index.html

Medicare EHR Incentive Program: http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-
Guidance/Legislation/EHRIncentivePrograms/index.html?redirect=/ehrincentiveprograms/

VM: http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Medicare-Fee-for-Service-
Payment/PhysicianFeedbackProgram/ValueBasedPaymentModifier.html

Information Related to Medicare Prescription Drug (Part D) Coverage:

Prescriber Enrollment in Medicare

Beginning June 1, 2015 physicians and EPs who write prescriptions for Part D drugs are required to be
enrolled in Medicare in an approved status or have a valid record of opting out of Medicare for their
prescriptions to be covered under Part D. Medicare prescription drug benefit plans will validate whether the
prescriber is enrolled or has opted out of Medicare as part of determining whether the drug is coverable
under Part D when the beneficiary's prescription is filled at the pharmacy. A provider may enroll or opt out
of Medicare by submitting to their MAC one of the following documents:

 A CMS-855I application (allows the physician to enroll in Medicare to bill for services; order and
 certify services and items; and to prescribe Part D drugs): or

 A CMS-855O application (allows the physician to enroll in Medicare to order and certify services
 and items, and to prescribe Part D drugs; however, this option does not confer billing privileges): or

 An opt out affidavit (physician agrees to opt out of the Medicare program for a period of two years
 and to meet certain other criteria).

As part of the enrollment process, provider credentials and eligibility are verified. Requiring Medicare
prescription drug benefit plans to validate a provider's Medicare enrollment status improves CMS' ability to
protect the Part D program from fraud and abuse. To avoid the denial of coverage of Part D prescriptions
due to your failure to enroll or opt-out, please note the following information:

 Be sure to maintain an active enrollment or opt out status with Medicare;

 Encourage your colleagues who are not enrolled in Medicare to enroll in advance of June 1, 2015.
 The options available for enrolling or opting out are identified above. For more information, please
 refer to the enrollment product entitled, Medicare Enrollment Guidelines for Ordering/Referring
 Providers at http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
 MLN/MLNProducts/Downloads/MedEnroll_OrderReferProv_FactSheet_ICN906223.pdf or SE1311
 - Opting out of Medicare and/or Electing to Order and Refer Services at
 http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
 MLN/MLNMattersArticles/downloads/SE1311.pdf;and
 If you supervise residents as a teaching physician, and the resident writes prescriptions for Medicare
 beneficiaries under your name and National Provider Identifier (NPI) number, beginning June 1,
 2015, the resident should enroll in Medicare (if eligible). CMS encourages prescribers to include
 your individual NPI on prescriptions in order to avoid follow up from pharmacies and Part D
 prescription drug benefit plans when processing a Medicare beneficiary's prescription. Residents
 may also refer to the document at the link noted just above for more information about enrollment in
 Medicare.

NPPES Taxonomy

Please check your data in the National Plan and Provider Enumeration System (NPPES) and confirm that it
still correctly reflects you as a health care provider. There is increased focus on the NPI as a health care
provider identifier for program integrity purposes. Incorrect taxonomy data in NPPES may lead to
unnecessary inquiries about your credentials as it may appear to Medicare oversight authorities that you may
not be lawfully prescribing Part D drugs. Comprehensive information about how the NPI rule pertains to
prescribers may be obtained from the CMS website at: http://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-
Guidance/HIPAA-Administrative-Simplification/NationalProvIdentStand/Downloads/NPI-Requirements-
for-Prescribers.pdf.

Prescription Drug Abuse

Prescription drug abuse is the nation's fastest growing drug problem. Additional prescriber awareness and
engagement are crucial to addressing this problem. CMS has implemented an approach to help Medicare
prescription drug plans identify and manage the most egregious cases of opioid overutilization, which often
involves multiple prescribers and pharmacies who are not aware of each other. If you are contacted by a
prescription drug plan about the opioid use of one of your patients, please take the time to provide your
feedback and expertise to help assure the safe use of these products.

Many states have operational Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs (PDMPs). PDMPs are tools used by
states to reduce prescription drug abuse and diversion. We encourage you to actively participate in your
state's PDMP. For more information about your state's PDMP program and how to obtain access, please
visit the following website: http://www.pmpalliance.org/content/pmp-access.

Prescriber Identifiers in Research

You should be aware that CMS now allows researchers to request the release of unencrypted prescriber
identifiers contained in Medicare Part D data. This change in policy now gives researchers the ability to
conduct important research that involves identified prescribers, which will increase the positive
contributions researchers make to the evaluation and function of the Part D program. This access supports
CMS's growing role as a value-based purchaser of health care, and is only granted pursuant to CMS'
policies and procedures for release of such data to researchers.

Serving Qualified Medicare Beneficiaries (QMBs):

Many Medicare beneficiaries with limited incomes and resources are also covered by their state's Qualified
Medicare Beneficiary (QMB) program. This means that the state Medicaid agency is responsible for these
beneficiaries' Medicare cost sharing. We encourage all Medicare physicians and other practitioners to serve
individuals eligible for the QMB program.

We also remind all Medicare physicians and other practitioners that they may not balance bill their QMB
patients for Medicare cost sharing, including deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments. Under federal law,
Medicare payment plus any Medicaid payment are considered payment in full for services rendered to a
beneficiary participating in the QMB program. Physicians and other practitioners may want to refresh their
understanding of how their state handles QMB cost sharing claims. In most states, claims submitted to
 Medicare are crossed over automatically to the state Medicaid agency. States may require providers to
register with their State payment system in order to receive cost sharing payments. More information on
billing procedures for QMBs is available at: http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-
Learning-Network-MLN/MLNMattersArticles/downloads/SE1128.pdf.

We understand that the intersection between Medicare and Medicaid is complex. If you have any questions
about serving QMBs, please contact MedicareMedicaidCoordination@cms.hhs.gov.

Revalidation:

Over the coming months, many providers will receive requests from their respective MACs to revalidate
their Medicare enrollment information. Providers can revalidate their enrollment information using either
the Internet-based Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System found at
https://pecos.cms.hhs.gov/pecos/login.do or the CMS-855 paper application found at
http://www.cms.gov/CMSForms/CMSForms/list.asp. CMS encourages all practitioners to respond timely to
revalidation requests received by their MAC. Failure to submit a complete revalidation application,
including all supporting documents, may result in deactivation of your Medicare billing privileges.

Please refer to the MLN Matters® Special Edition Article on this subject at http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-
and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-MLN/MLNMattersArticles/downloads/SE1126.pdf on the
CMS website.

The Medicare Learning Network®:

The MLN® now offers a weekly electronic newsletter, the MLN Connects Provider eNews. View past
editions at http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Outreach/FFSProvPartProg/Provider-Partnership-
Email-Archive.html. The clickable table of contents allows health care professionals to move directly to
items of interest, such as upcoming calls and events; and CMS program information, including ICD-10,
EHR incentive programs, Medicare enrollment, CMS quality incentive programs and MLN® educational
materials. To subscribe, go to
https://public.govdelivery.com/accounts/USCMS/subscriber/new?pop=t&topic_id=USCMS_7819. All you
need is a valid e-mail address.

The MLN® also provides two electronic mailing lists to help health care professionals stay informed about
the latest MLN® educational products and MLN Matters® articles.

 MLN® Educational Products Electronic Mailing List: MLN® Products are designed to provide
 education on a variety of CMS programs, including provider supplier enrollment, preventive
 services, provider compliance, and Medicare payment policies. All products are free of charge and
 offered in a variety of formats to meet your educational needs. For information on how to subscribe
 to this mailing list, go to http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
 MLN/MLNProducts/downloads/MLNProducts_listserv.pdf on the CMS website.

 MLN Matters® Articles Electronic Mailing List: MLN Matters® are national articles that educate
 health care professionals about important changes to CMS programs. Articles explain complex
 policy information in plain language to help health care professionals reduce the time it takes to
 incorporate these changes into their CMS-related activities. For information on how to subscribe to
 this mailing list, go to http://www.cms.gov/Outreach-and-Education/Medicare-Learning-Network-
 MLN/MLNProducts/Downloads/What_Is_MLNMatters.pdf on the CMS website.

For more information about MLN® products and services, visit the MLN® General Information web page
at http://go.cms.gov/MLNGenInfo on the CMS website.
 OMB No. 0938-0373

 MEDICARE
 PARTICIPATING PHYSICIAN OR SUPPLIER AGREEMENT

Name(s) and Address of Participant* National Provider Identifier (NPI)*

The above named person or organization, called "the participant," hereby enters into an agreement with the
Medicare program to accept assignment of the Medicare Part B payment for all services for which the
participant is eligible to accept assignment under the Medicare law and regulations and which are furnished
while this agreement is in effect.

 1. Meaning of Assignment - For purposes of this agreement, accepting assignment of the Medicare
Part B payment means requesting direct Part B payment from the Medicare program. Under an assignment,
the approved charge, determined by the Medicare Administrative Contractor (MAC)/carrier, shall be the full
charge for the service covered under Part B. The participant shall not collect from the beneficiary or other
person or organization for covered services more than the applicable deductible and coinsurance.

 2. Effective Date - If the participant files the agreement with any MAC/carrier during the enrollment
period, the agreement becomes effective __________________.

 3. Term and Termination of Agreement - This agreement shall continue in effect through December
31 following the date the agreement becomes effective and shall be renewed automatically for each 12-
month period January 1 through December 31 thereafter unless one of the following occurs:

 a. During the enrollment period provided near the end of any calendar year, the participant
notifies in writing every MAC/carrier with whom the participant has filed the agreement or a copy of the
agreement that the participant wishes to terminate the agreement at the end of the current term. In the event
such notification is mailed or delivered during the enrollment period provided near the end of any calendar
year, the agreement shall end on December 31 of that year.

 b. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services may find, after notice to and opportunity for a
hearing for the participant, that the participant has substantially failed to comply with the agreement. In the
event such a finding is made, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services will notify the participant in
writing that the agreement will be terminated at a time designated in the notice. Civil and criminal penalties
may also be imposed for violation of the agreement.

_________________________ ________________________ ___________
 Signature of participant Title Date

(or authorized representative (if signer is authorized
of participating organization) representative of organization)

(including area code)
Office phone number

*List all names and the NPI under which the participant files claims with the MAC/carrier with whom this
agreement is being filed.

CMS-460 (4/10)

 2

Received by
(name of MAC/carrier)

Effective date

Initials of carrier official

According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid
OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0938-0373. The time required to complete this
 information collection is estimated to average 15 minutes per response, including the time to review instructions, search existing data resources,
gather the data needed and complete and review the information collection. If you have any comments concerning the accuracy of the time
estimate(s) or suggestions for improving this form, please write to: CMS, 7500 Security Boulevard, Attn: PRA Reports Clearance Officer,
Baltimore, Maryland 21244-1850.