CMS Manual System Department of Health &
 Human Services (DHHS)
Pub. 100-07 State Operations Centers for Medicare &
Provider Certification Medicaid Services (CMS)

Transmittal 130 Date: December 12, 2014

SUBJECT: Revisions to State Operations Manual (SOM), Appendix PP Guidance to
Surveyors for Long Term Care Facilities 

I. SUMMARY OF CHANGES: This instruction revises the Interpretive Guideline for F309 
Quality of Care and F329-Unnecessary Drugs.

NEW/REVISED MATERIAL - EFFECTIVE DATE: December 12, 2014
 IMPLEMENTATION DATE: December 12, 2014

Disclaimer for manual changes only: The revision date and transmittal number apply to the
red italicized material only. Any other material was previously published and remains
unchanged. However, if this revision contains a table of contents, you will receive the
new/revised information only, and not the entire table of contents.

II. CHANGES IN MANUAL INSTRUCTIONS: (N/A if manual not updated.)
 (R = REVISED, N = NEW, D = DELETED) (Only One Per Row.)

 R/N/D CHAPTER/SECTION/SUBSECTION/TITLE
 R Appendix PP/F309/§483.25 Quality of Care
 R Appendix PP/F329/§483.25(l) Unnecessary Drugs

III. FUNDING: No additional funding will be provided by CMS; contractor activities are
to be carried out within their operating budgets.

IV. ATTACHMENTS:

 Business Requirements
X Manual Instruction

 Confidential Requirements
 One-Time Notification
 One-Time Notification Confidential
 Recurring Update Notification

*Unless otherwise specified, the effective date is the date of service.
 F309

(Rev. 130; Issued: 12-12-14, Effective: 12-12-14, Implementation: 12-12-14)

§483.25 Quality of Care

Each resident must receive and the facility must provide the necessary care and services to
attain or maintain the highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in
accordance with the comprehensive assessment and plan of care.

Intent: §483.25

The facility must ensure that the resident obtains optimal improvement or does not deteriorate
within the limits of a resident's right to refuse treatment, and within the limits of recognized
pathology and the normal aging process.

NOTE: Use guidance at F309 for review of quality of care not specifically covered by 42 CFR
 483.25 (a)-(m). Tag F309 includes, but is not limited to, care such as care of a
 resident with dementia, end-of-life, diabetes, renal disease, fractures, congestive heart
 failure, non-pressure related skin ulcers, pain, and fecal impaction.

Definitions: §483.25

 Highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being is defined as the highest
 possible level of functioning and well-being, limited by the individual's recognized pathology
 and normal aging process. Highest practicable is determined through the comprehensive
 resident assessment and by recognizing and competently and thoroughly addressing the
 physical, mental or psychosocial needs of the individual.

Interpretive Guidelines §483.25

In any instance in which there has been a lack of improvement or a decline, the survey team must
determine if the occurrence was unavoidable or avoidable. A determination of unavoidable
decline or failure to reach highest practicable well-being may be made only if all of the following
are present:

 An accurate and complete assessment (see §483.20);

 A care plan that is implemented consistently and based on information from the
 assessment; and

 Evaluation of the results of the interventions and revising the interventions as necessary.
 Determine if the facility is providing the necessary care and services based on the findings of the
comprehensive assessment and plan of care. If services and care are being provided, determine if
the facility is evaluating the resident's outcome and changing the interventions if needed. This
should be done in accordance with the resident's customary daily routine.

Procedures §483.25

Assess a facility's compliance with these requirements by determining if the services noted in the
plan of care are: based on a comprehensive and accurate functional assessment of the resident's
strengths, weaknesses, risk factors for deterioration and potential for improvement; continually
and aggressively implemented; and updated by the facility staff. In looking at assessments, use
both the MDS and CAAs information, any other pertinent assessments, and resulting care plans.

If the resident has been in the facility for less than 14 days (before completion of all the RAI is
required), determine if the facility is conducting ongoing assessment and care planning, and, if
appropriate care and services are being provided.

General Investigative Protocol for F309, Quality of Care

Use:

Use this General Investigative Protocol to investigate Quality of Care concerns that are not
otherwise covered in the remaining tags at §483.25, Quality of Care or for which specific
investigative protocols have not been established. For investigating concerns regarding
management of pain, use the pain management investigative protocol below. Surveyors should
consider any quality of care issue that is not covered in a specific Quality of Care tag to be
covered under this tag, F309.

Procedure:

Briefly review the assessment, care plan and orders to identify whether the facility has recognized
and addressed the concerns or resident care needs being investigated. Also use this review to
identify facility interventions and to guide observations to be made. Corroborate observations by
interview and record review.

Observations:

Observe whether staff consistently implement the care plan over time and across various shifts.
During observations of the interventions, note and/or follow up on deviations from the care plan,
deviations from current standards of practice, and potential negative outcomes.

Resident/Representative Interview
 Interview the resident or representative to the degree possible to determine the resident's or
representative's:

 Awareness of the current condition(s) or history of the condition(s) or
 diagnosis/diagnoses;

 Involvement in the development of the care plan, goals, and if interventions reflect
 choices and preferences; and

 How effective the interventions have been and if not effective, whether alternate
 approaches have been tried by the facility.

Nursing Staff Interview

Interview nursing staff on various shifts to determine:

 Their knowledge of the specific interventions for the resident, including facility-specific
 guidelines/protocols;

 Whether nursing assistants know how, what, when, and to whom to report changes in
 condition; and

 How the charge nurse monitors for the implementation of the care plan, and changes in
 condition.

Assessment

Review information such as orders, medication administration records, multi-disciplinary
progress notes, the RAI/MDS, and any specific assessments that may have been completed.
Determine if the information accurately and comprehensively reflects the resident's condition. In
considering the appropriateness of a facility's response to the presence or progression of a
condition/diagnosis, take into account the time needed to determine the effectiveness of
treatment, and the facility's efforts, where possible, to remove, modify, or stabilize the risk
factors and underlying causal factors.

NOTE: Although Federal requirements dictate the completion of RAI assessments
 according to certain time frames, standards of good clinical practice dictate that
 the assessment process is more fluid and should be ongoing. (Federal Register
 Vol. 62, No. 246, 12/23/97, page 67193)

Care Planning

Determine whether the facility developed a care plan that was consistent with the resident's
specific conditions, risks, needs, behaviors, preferences and with current standards of practice
 and included measurable objectives and timetables with specific interventions. If the care plan
refers to a specific facility treatment protocol that contains details of the treatment regimen, the
care plan should refer to that protocol and should clarify any major deviations from or revisions
to the protocol for this resident. The treatment protocol must be available to the caregivers and
staff should be familiar with the protocol requirements.

NOTE: A specific care plan intervention is not needed if other components of the care plan
 address related risks adequately. For example, the risk of nutritional compromise for
 a resident with diabetes mellitus might be addressed in that part of the care plan that
 deals with nutritional management.

Care Plan Revision

Determine whether staff have monitored the resident's condition and effectiveness of the care
plan interventions and revised the care plan with input by the resident and/or the representative,
to the extent possible, (or justified the continuation of the existing plan) based upon the
following:

 Achieving the desired outcome;

 Resident failure or inability to comply with or participate in a program to attain or
 maintain the highest practicable level of well-being; and/or

 Change in resident condition, ability to make decisions, cognition, medications,
 behavioral symptoms or visual problems.

Interview with Health Care Practitioners and Professionals

If the care provided has not been consistent with the care plan or the interventions defined or care
provided appear not to be consistent with recognized standards of practice, interview one or more
health care practitioners and professionals as necessary (e.g., physician, charge nurse, director of
nursing, therapist) who, by virtue of training and knowledge of the resident, should be able to
provide information about the causes, treatment and evaluation of the resident's condition or
problem. If there is a medical question, contact the physician if he/she is the most appropriate
person to interview. If the attending physician is unavailable, interview the medical director, as
appropriate. Depending on the issue, ask about:

 How it was determined that chosen interventions were appropriate;

 Risks identified for which there were no interventions;

 Changes in condition that may justify additional or different interventions; or

 How staff validated the effectiveness of current interventions.
 DETERMINATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH F309 (Task 6, Appendix P)
 THAT IS NOT RELATED TO PAIN OR PAIN MANAGEMENT

Synopsis of Regulation (Tag F309)

The resident must receive and the facility must provide the necessary care and services to attain
or maintain his/her highest practicable level of physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in
accordance with the comprehensive assessment and plan of care.

Criteria for Compliance:

Compliance with F309, Quality of Care - The facility is in compliance with this requirement if
staff:

 Recognized and assessed factors placing the resident at risk for specific conditions,

 causes, and/or problems;

 Defined and implemented interventions in accordance with resident needs, goals, and

 recognized standards of practice;

 Monitored and evaluated the resident's response to preventive efforts and treatment; and

 Revised the approaches as appropriate.

Concerns with Independent but Associated Structure, Process, and/or Outcome
Requirements.

During the investigation, the surveyor may have identified concerns with related structure,
process, and/or outcome requirements. If an additional concern has been identified, the surveyor
must investigate the identified concern. Do not cite any related or associated requirements before
first conducting an investigation to determine compliance or non-compliance with the related or
associated requirement. Some examples include, but are not limited to, the following:

 42 CFR 483.10(b)(11), F157, Notification of Changes

 Determine whether staff notified the resident and consulted the physician regarding
 significant changes in the resident's condition or a need to alter treatment significantly or
 notified the representative of a significant condition change.

 42 CFR 483.(20)(b), F272, Comprehensive Assessments

 Determine whether the facility assessed the resident's condition, including existing status,
 and resident-specific risk factors (including potential causative factors) in relation to the
 identified concern under review.
 42 CFR 483.20(k), F279, Comprehensive Care Plan

 Determine whether the facility established a care plan with timetables and resident
 specific goals and interventions to address the care needs and treatment related to the
 clinical diagnosis and/or the identified concern.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)(2)(iii), 483.10(d)(3), F280, Care Plan Revision

 Determine whether the staff reviewed and revised the care plan as indicated based upon
 the resident's response to the care plan interventions, and obtained input from the resident
 or representative to the extent possible.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)3)(i), F281, Services Provided Meets Professional Standards of
 Quality

 Determine whether the facility, beginning from the time of admission, provided care and
 services related to the identified concern that meet professional standards of quality.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)(3)(ii), F282,Care Provided by Qualified Persons in Accordance
 with Plan of Care

 Determine whether care was provided by qualified staff and whether staff implemented
 the care plan correctly and adequately.

 42 CFR 483.30(a), F353, Sufficient Staff

 Determine whether the facility had qualified nursing staff in sufficient numbers to assure
 the resident was provided necessary care and services 24 hours a day, based upon the
 comprehensive assessment and care plan.

 42 CFR 483.40(a)(1)&(2), F385, Physician Supervision

 Determine whether the physician has assessed and developed a relevant treatment
 regimen and responded appropriately to the notice of changes in condition.

 42 CFR 483.75(f), F498, Proficiency of Nurse Aides

 Determine whether nurse aides demonstrate competency in the delivery of care and
 services related to the concern being investigated.

 42 CFR 483.75(i)(2), F501, Medical Director

 Determine whether the medical director:
 - Assisted the facility in the development and implementation of policies and
 procedures and that these are based on current standards of practice; and

 - Interacts with the physician supervising the care of the resident if requested by the
 facility to intervene on behalf of the residents.

 42 CFR 483.75(l), F514, Clinical Records

 Determine whether the clinical records:

 - Accurately and completely document the resident's status, the care and services
 provided in accordance with current professional standards and practices; and

 - Provide a basis for determining and managing the resident's progress including
 response to treatment, change in condition, and changes in treatment.

DEFICIENCY CATEGORIZATION (Part IV, Appendix P)

Once the survey team has completed its investigation, analyzed the data, reviewed the regulatory
requirements, and determined that noncompliance exists, the team must determine the severity of
each deficiency, based on the harm or potential for harm to the resident. The key elements for
severity determination for F309 Quality of Care requirements are as follows:

 1. Presence of harm/negative outcome(s) or potential for negative outcomes because of lack
 of appropriate treatment and care, such as decline in function or failure to achieve the
 highest possible level of well-being.

 2. Degree of harm (actual or potential) related to the non-compliance. Identify how the
 facility practices caused, resulted in, allowed or contributed to the actual or potential for
 harm:

 If harm has occurred, determine if the harm is at the level of serious injury,
 impairment, death, compromise, or discomfort to the resident(s); and

 If harm has not yet occurred, determine the potential for serious injury, impairment,
 death, compromise, or discomfort to occur to the resident(s).

 3. The immediacy of correction required. Determine whether the noncompliance requires
 immediate correction in order to prevent serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to one
 or more residents.

The survey team must evaluate the harm or potential for harm for F309 based upon the four
levels of severity. First, the team must rule out whether Severity Level 4, Immediate Jeopardy to
a resident's health or safety, exists by evaluating the deficient practice in relation to immediacy,
culpability, and severity. Follow the guidance in Appendix Q, Determining Immediate Jeopardy.
 If specific guidance and examples have not been established elsewhere for the concern having
been reviewed, follow the general guidance in Appendix P regarding Guidance on Severity and
Scope Levels and Psychosocial Outcome Severity Guide.

Interpretive Guidelines for Selected Specific Quality of Care Issues at §483.25.

The following sections describe some specific issues or care needs that are not otherwise covered
in the remaining tags of §483.25, Quality of Care. These are only some of the issues that may
arise with a resident's quality of care. Surveyors should consider any quality of care issue that is
not covered in a specific Quality of Care tag to be covered under this tag, F309.

Review of Care and Services for a Resident with Dementia

Use this guidance for a resident with dementia. If the resident is receiving one or more
psychopharmacological agents, also review the guidance at F329, Unnecessary Drugs.

There is no specific investigative protocol for care of a resident with dementia. For the
traditional survey, the surveyor may use the surveyor checklist titled, Review of Care and
Services for a Resident with Dementia to assist in investigating the care and services provided
to a resident with a diagnosis of dementia. For the QIS survey, the surveyor will use the general
CE pathway and may use the checklist as a guide to completing that pathway.

Definitions Related to Recognition and Management of Dementia

 Behavioral interventions are individualized approaches (including direct care and activities)
 that are provided as part of a supportive physical and psychosocial environment, and are
 directed toward understanding, preventing, relieving, and/or accommodating a resident's
 distress or loss of abilities.

 Person-Centered or Person-Appropriate Care is care that is individualized by being tailored
 to all relevant considerations for that individual, including physical, functional, and
 psychosocial aspects. For example, activities should be relevant to the specific needs,
 interests, culture, background, etc. of the individual for whom they are developed and
 medical treatment should be tailored to an individual's risk factors, current conditions, past
 history, and details of any present symptoms.

 Behavioral or Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD) is a term used to describe
 behavior or other symptoms in individuals with dementia that cannot be attributed to a
 specific medical or psychiatric cause. The term behaviors is more general and may
 encompass BPSD or responses by individuals to a situation, the environment or efforts to
 communicate an unmet need.

Overview of Dementia and Behavioral Health

What is Behavior?
 Human behavior is the response of an individual to a wide variety of factors. Behavior is
generated through brain function, which is in turn influenced by input from the rest of the body.
Specific behavioral responses depends on many factors, including personal experience and past
learning, inborn tendencies and genetic traits, the environment and response to the actions and
reactions of other people. A condition (such as dementia) that affects the brain and the body
may affect behavior.

What is Dementia?

Dementia is not a specific disease. It is a descriptive term for a collection of symptoms that can
be caused by a number of disorders that affect the brain. People with dementia have significantly
impaired intellectual functioning that interferes with normal activities and relationships. They
also lose their ability to solve problems and maintain emotional control, and they may
experience personality changes and behavioral problems, such as agitation, delusions, and
hallucinations. While memory loss is a common symptom of dementia, memory loss by itself does
not mean that a person has dementia. Doctors diagnose dementia only if two or more brain
functions - such as memory and language skills -- are significantly impaired without loss of
consciousness.

Some of the diseases that can cause symptoms of dementia are Alzheimer's disease, vascular
dementia, Lewy body dementia, fronto-temporal dementia, Huntington's disease, and
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Doctors have identified other conditions that can cause dementia or
dementia-like symptoms including reactions to medications, metabolic problems and endocrine
abnormalities, nutritional deficiencies, infections, poisoning, brain tumors, anoxia or hypoxia
(conditions in which the brain's oxygen supply is either reduced or cut off entirely), and heart
and lung problems. Although it is common in very elderly individuals, dementia is not a normal
part of the aging process.

Some individuals with dementia may have coexisting symptoms or psychiatric conditions such as
depression or bipolar affective disorder, paranoia, delusions or hallucinations. Progressive
dementia may exacerbate these and other symptoms.

Behavioral or psychological symptoms are often related to the brain disease in dementia;
however behavior and other symptoms may also be caused or exacerbated by environmental
triggers. Behavior often represents a person's attempt to communicate an unmet need,
discomfort or thoughts that they can no longer articulate. Knowing detailed cultural, medical
and psychosocial information about a person can help caregivers identify potential
environmental or other triggers in order to prevent or reduce, to the extent possible, behavior or
other expressions of distress.2 Because behavioral symptoms may be caused by medical
conditions such as delirium, medication side effects, and psychiatric symptoms such as delusions
or hallucinations, these should be considered as possible causes in addition to environmental
triggers.

What is Delirium?
 A resident may have undiagnosed delirium, which is an acute confusional state that includes
symptoms very similar to those of dementia and psychiatric disorders. The diagnostic criteria for
delirium include a fluctuating course throughout the day, inattention as evidenced by being
easily distracted, cognitive changes, and perceptual disturbances3.

Delirium develops rapidly over a short time period, such as hours or days, and is associated with
an altered level of consciousness. Delirium has an underlying physiologic cause that can
generally be identified through a diagnostic evaluation. Potential causes include, but are not
limited to, infection, fluid/electrolyte imbalance, medication, or multiple factors. Specific
diagnostic criteria are outlined in the DSM IV-TR or the Confusion Assessment Method3,4.

Classic delirium is often characterized as hyperactive (e.g., extreme restlessness, climbing out of
bed); but more commonly delirium is hypoactive often leading to the misdiagnosis of dementia or
a psychiatric disorder. Delirium is particularly common post-hospitalization; signs and
symptoms may be subtle and therefore are often missed. Although generally thought to be short
lived, delirium can persist for months.

Delirium and dementia are now recognized as being related. Individuals with dementia are at
higher risk for developing delirium and it now appears that delirium increases the risk of
developing dementia over time5. Recognizing delirium is critical, as failure to act quickly to
identify and treat the underlying causes may result in poor health outcomes, hospitalization or
even death6.

Therapeutic Interventions or Approaches

The use of any approach must be based on a careful, detailed assessment of physical,
psychological and behavioral symptoms and underlying causes as well as potential situational or
environmental reasons for the behaviors. Caregivers and practitioners are expected to
understand or explain the rationale for interventions/approaches, to monitor the effectiveness of
those interventions/approaches, and to provide ongoing assessment as to whether they are
improving or stabilizing the resident's status or causing adverse consequences. Describing the
details and possible consequences of resident behaviors helps to distinguish expressions such as
restlessness or continual verbalization from potentially harmful actions such as kicking, biting or
striking out at others. This description alone does not suggest that a specific intervention is or is
not indicated; however, it is important information that may assist the care team (including the
resident and/or family or representative) in decision-making and in matching selected
interventions to the individual needs of each resident.

Identifying the frequency, intensity, duration and impact of behaviors, as well as the location,
surroundings or situation in which they occur may help staff and practitioners identify
individualized interventions or approaches to prevent or address the behaviors. Individualized,
person-centered interventions must be implemented to address behavioral expressions of distress
in persons with dementia. In many situations, medications may not be necessary;
staff/practitioners should not automatically assume that medications are an appropriate
treatment without a systematic evaluation of the resident. Examples of techniques or
 environmental modifications that may prevent certain behavior related to dementia may include
(but are not limited to):

 Arranging staffing to optimize familiarity with the resident (e.g., consistent caregiver
 assignment);

 Identifying, to the extent possible, factors that may underlie the resident's expressions of
 distress, as well as applying knowledge of lifelong patterns, preferences, and interests for
 daily activities to enhance quality of life and individualize routine care.

 Understanding that the resident with dementia may be responding predictably given the
 situation or surroundings. For example, being awakened at night in his/her bedroom by
 staff and not recognizing the staff could elicit an aggressive response; and

 Matching activities for a resident with dementia to his/her individual cognitive and other
 abilities and the specific behaviors in that individual based on the assessment.

Medication Use in Dementia (see also F329)

It has been a common practice to use various types of psychopharmacological medications in
nursing homes to try to address behavioral or psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD)7,8
without first determining whether there is an underlying medical, physical, functional,
psychosocial, emotional, psychiatric, or environmental cause of the behaviors. Medications may
be effective when they are used appropriately to address significant, specific underlying medical
and psychiatric causes or new or worsening behavioral symptoms. However, medications may
be ineffective and are likely to cause harm when given without a clinical indication, at too high a
dose or for too long after symptoms have resolved and if the medications are not monitored. All
interventions including medications need to be monitored for efficacy, risks, benefits and harm.

These agents must only be used if the steps in the care process below and as outlined in F329
have been followed.

When antipsychotic medications are used without an adequate rationale, or for the sole purpose
of limiting or controlling behavior of an unidentified cause, there is little chance that they will be
effective, and they commonly cause complications such as movement disorders, falls, hip
fractures, cerebrovascular adverse events (cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic
events) and increased risk of death.9,10,11,12 The FDA Black Box Warning Regarding Atypical
Antipsychotics in Dementia states, Elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis treated
with atypical antipsychotic drugs are at an increased risk of death compared to placebo. The
FDA issued a similar Black Box Warning for conventional antipsychotic drugs. (Additional
information on the FDA black box warning is available at
http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/default.htm.)
 Recent studies suggest that certain antipsychotic medications may have greater risks than others
in that same class of medications. 13,14 Other classes of psychopharmacological agents may
carry significant risks as well.

 NOTE: If a concern is identified during a survey that an antipsychotic medication may
 potentially be administered for discipline, convenience and/or is not being used to treat a
 medical symptom, consider reviewing F222 - 483.3(a) Restraints, for the right to be free
 from any chemical restraints.

Resident and/or Family/Representative Involvement:

CMS expects that the resident and family/representatives, to the extent possible, are involved in
helping staff to understand the potential underlying causes of behavioral distress and to
participate in the development and implementation of the resident's care plan. Residents have
the right to be informed about their medical condition, care and treatment; they have the right to
refuse treatment and the right to participate in the care plan process. (See F154, F155, F242,
F279, F280)

Facilities should be able to identify how they have involved residents/families/representatives in
discussions about potential approaches to address behaviors and about the potential risks and
benefits of a psychopharmacological medication (e.g., FDA black box warnings), the proposed
course of treatment, expected duration of use of the medication, use of individualized
approaches, plans to evaluate the effects of the treatment, and pertinent alternatives. The
discussion should be documented in the resident's record. (See F154)

 NOTE: some states have specific laws/licensing rules regarding the provision of
 informed consent. The State Agency determines and directs the surveyors regarding the
 review for those provisions under their State licensing authority. If non-compliance with
 the State regulation is identified, the surveyors may only cite this non-compliance at
 F492 when the Federal, State or local authority having jurisdiction has both made a
 determination of non-compliance AND has taken a final adverse action.

The facility should document attempts to include the family/representative, to the extent possible,
in the decision-making process. If the family/representative is unable to participate in person,
were further attempts made to include the family/representative in the discussions/development
of the care planning through alternative methods, such as by phone or electronic methods?

If the resident lacks decision-making capacity and lacks an effective family/representative
support, contact the facility social worker to determine what type of social services or referrals
have been attempted to assist the resident. (See F250)

During interviews with the family/representative, surveyors should ask if families have observed
staff implementing the individualized care plan interventions that were developed. (See F282)

Care Process for a Resident with Dementia
 Fundamental principles of care for persons with dementia include an interdisciplinary team
approach that focuses holistically on the needs of the resident as well as the needs of the other
residents in the nursing home. It is important for the facility to have systems and procedures in
place to assure that assessments are timely and accurate; interventions are described,
consistently implemented, monitored, and revised as appropriate in accordance with current
standards of practice.

It is expected that a facility's approach to care for a resident with dementia follows a systematic
care process in order to gather and analyze information necessary to provide appropriate care
and services, and that the resident and/or family or representative is engaged throughout the
process. It is expected that the resident's record reflects the implementation of the following care
processes:

 A. Recognition and Assessment;

 B. Cause Identification and Diagnosis;

 C. Development of Care Plan;

 D. Individualized Approaches and Treatment;

 E. Monitoring, Follow-up and Oversight; and

 F. Quality Assessment and Assurance (QAA).

See Additional Resources section below for some suggested resources that facilities may consult
in developing their dementia care policies.

The following guidance aggregates requirements in a number of other F-tags such as
comprehensive assessment, activities, resident rights, unnecessary medications and others,
bringing that guidance together into a framework for evaluating care of individuals with
dementia.

A. Recognition and Assessment:

This step includes collecting detailed information about a resident. The resident's record should
reflect comprehensive information about the person including, but not limited to: past life
experiences, description of behaviors, preferences such as those for daily routines, food, music,
exercise and others; oral health, presence of pain, medical conditions; cognitive status and
related abilities and medications. When reviewing the comprehensive assessment (see F272), the
Care Area Assessment (CAA) Resources, particularly those related to Activities and Behavioral
Symptoms, found in the Long-Term Care Facility Resident Assessment Instrument User's
Manual, Version 3.0 may be helpful.
 It is important to determine whether the record reflects the evaluation of, but is not limited to:

 How the resident typically communicates physical needs such as pain, discomfort, hunger
 or thirst, as well as emotional and psychological needs such as frustration or boredom;
 or a desire to do or express something that he/she cannot articulate;

 The resident's usual and current cognitive patterns, mood and behavior, and whether
 these present a risk to the resident or others;

 How the resident typically displays personal distress such as anxiety or fatigue.

This and other information enables an understanding of the individual and provides a basis for
cause identification (based on knowing the whole person and how the situation and environment
may trigger behaviors) and individualized interventions. If the resident expresses distress, staff
should specifically describe the behavior (including potential underlying causes, onset, duration,
intensity, precipitating events or environmental triggers, etc.) and related factors (such as
appearance and alertness) in the medical record with enough detail of the actual situation to
permit cause identification and individualized interventions. (See F154) For example, noting that
the resident is generally violent, agitated or aggressive does not identify the specific
behavior exhibited by the resident. Noting instead that the resident responds in crowded, busy
group activities by yelling or throwing furniture reflects not only a potential safety issue but
should result in the resident being provided alternative activities to meet his/her needs.

B. Cause Identification and Diagnosis:

This step uses the information collected about an individual to help identify the physical,
functional, psychosocial, environmental, and other potential causes of behavior and related
symptoms, including how they interact with each other. Staff, in collaboration with the
practitioner, should identify possible risk and causal/contributing factors for behaviors, such as:

 Presence of co-existing medical or psychiatric conditions, including acute/chronic
 pain, constipation, delirium and others, or worsening of mental function; and/or

 Adverse consequences related to the resident's current medications. (See F329)

Staff must make an ongoing effort to identify and document the new onset or worsening
behavioral symptoms, including whether or not the behavior presents a significant risk for
adverse consequences to the resident and/or others.

The attending physician is responsible for supervising each resident's medical care. In addition,
the facility must immediately consult with the resident's physician when there is a significant
change in the resident's physical, mental, or psychosocial status. (See F157) If the behaviors
observed represent a change or worsening from the baseline, the attending
physician/practitioner and staff are expected to consider potential underlying medical, physical,
psychosocial, or environmental causes of the behaviors (See F385). If the resident has
 experienced two or more areas of decline or improvement, including a change related to
behavior, a Significant Change in Clinical Status Assessment (SCSA) should be considered (see
F274).

If medical causes are ruled out, the facility should attempt to establish other root causes of
behavior using individualized, holistic knowledge about the person and when possible,
information from the resident, family or previous caregivers, and direct care staff. This includes
conducting a systematic analysis and consideration of possible causes, including but not limited
to:

 Boredom; lack of meaningful activity or stimulation during customary routines and
 activities;

 Anxiety related to changes in routines such as shift changes, unfamiliar or different
 caregivers, change of (or relationship with) roommate, inability to communicate;

 Care routines (such as bathing) that are inconsistent with a person's preferences;

 Personal needs not being met appropriately or sufficiently, such as hunger, thirst,
 constipation;

 Fatigue, lack of sleep or change in sleep patterns which may make the person more
 likely to misinterpret environmental cues resulting in anxiety, aggression or
 confusion.

 Environmental factors, for example noise levels that could be causing or contributing
 to discomfort or misinterpretation of noises such as over-head pages, alarms, etc.
 causing delusions and/or hallucinations.

 Mismatch between the activities or routines selected and the resident's cognitive and
 other abilities to participate in those activities/routines. For example, a resident who
 has progressed from mid to later stages of dementia may become frustrated and upset
 if he/she is trying but unable to do things that she previously enjoyed, or unable to
 perform tasks such as dressing or grooming.

C. Development of Care Plan:

This step identifies the approaches, interventions, therapies, medications, etc. for a specific
resident. The care plan should include a well-defined problem-statement and should outline the
goals of care. It should include measurable objectives and timetables for individualized
interventions. It should also identify the responsibilities of various staff to implement the
approaches effectively. The care plan should reflect:

 Baseline and ongoing details (e.g., frequency, intensity, and duration) of common
 behavioral expressions and expected response to interventions (See F279);
 Specific goals for and monitoring of all interventions for effectiveness in responding
 to target behaviors/expressions of distress (See F279); and

 For any medications, indication/rationale for use, specific target behaviors and
 expected outcomes, dosage, duration, monitoring for efficacy and/or adverse
 consequences and (when applicable) plans for gradual dose reduction (GDR) if an
 antipsychotic medication is used (See F329).

In developing the plan of care, the interdisciplinary team, in collaboration with the resident or
family/representative, reviews the results of the assessment and cause identification above in
order to develop individualized, person-centered interventions. Staff should determine, in
collaboration with the practitioner, resident, and family/resident representative if and why
behaviors should be addressed (e.g., severely distressing to resident and unrelieved by other
approaches or interventions). Individualized, person-centered approaches should be
implemented to address expressions of distress. These may include:

 Non-pharmacological approaches. Section 483.25 (l)(2)(ii) - F329, requires that
 Residents who use antipsychotic drugs receive gradual dose reductions and
 behavioral interventions, unless clinically contraindicated, in an effort to discontinue
 these drugs. 

The guidance at F248, §483.15(f)(1), Activities, provides examples of non-pharmacological
approaches for several types of distressed behavior such as constant walking, yelling, going
through others' belongings, etc. Certain behavior may be anticipated and sometimes may be
preventable based on understanding the underlying causes and possible triggers for each
individual.

Current published clinical guidelines5,6,7,8,9 recommend use of non-pharmacological
interventions for BPSD.

Utilizing a consistent process to address behaviors that focuses on the resident's individual
needs and tries to understand their behaviors as a form of communication may help to reduce
behavioral expressions of distress in those residents.

Several techniques are also outlined in the CMS DVD series for nursing assistant training,
 Hand in Hand, distributed to all U.S. nursing homes in 2012, and other materials available on
the Advancing Excellence website: http://www.nhqualitycampaign.org.

 NOTE: References to non-CMS sources or sites on the internet are provided as a
 service and do not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their
 programs by CMS or the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. CMS
 is not responsible for the content of pages found at these sites. URL addresses
 were current as of the date of this publication.
 Pharmacological interventions: In certain cases, residents may benefit from the
 use of medications. For example, a person who has a persistent, frightening
 delusion that she has left her children unattended and that they are in danger is
 inconsolable most of the day or night despite a number of staff and family
 approaches to address this fear. If other potential causes are ruled out, the team
 may determine that a trial of a low dose antipsychotic medication is warranted.

If a psychopharmacologic medication is initiated or continued, review the guidance at F329, and
interview staff about:

 What was the person trying to communicate through their behavior;

 What were the possible reasons for the person's behavior that led to the initiation
 of the medication;

 What other approaches and interventions were attempted prior to the use of the
 antipsychotic medication;

 Was the family or representative contacted prior to initiating the medication;

 Was the medication clinically indicated and/or necessary to treat a specific
 condition and target symptoms as diagnosed and documented in the record;

 Was the medication adjusted to the lowest possible dosage to achieve the desired
 therapeutic effects;

 Were gradual dose reductions planned and behavioral interventions, unless
 clinically contraindicated, provided in an effort to discontinue the medication;

 Was the interdisciplinary team, including the primary care practitioner, involved
 in the care planning process; and

 How does the staff monitor for the effectiveness and possible adverse
 consequences of the medication.

If the resident experienced a decline in function, an increased or worsening behavior, or less
than anticipated level of improvement in response to interventions, or refused or resisted the
interventions, the care plan approaches should be reviewed and revised/updated as appropriate.
(See F280)

D. Individualized Approaches and Treatment:

This step implements the care plan interventions to address the needs of a resident with
dementia. It includes addressing the causes and consequences of the resident's behavior and
staff communication and interactions with residents and families to try to prevent potentially
 distressing behaviors or symptoms. It is important to conduct sufficient observations in order to
determine if the care plan is being implemented as written. Observations should focus on
whether staff:

 Identify and document specific target behaviors, expressions of distress and
 desired outcomes (See F279 and F514); and

 Implement appropriate, individualized, person-centered interventions and
 document the results (See F240, F309, F329 and F514);

 Communicate and consistently implement the care plan, over time and across
 various shifts (See F282 and F498).

Staffing and Staff Training
During observations, determine whether there are sufficient numbers of staff to consistently
implement the care plan. (See F353) The nursing home must provide staff, both in terms of
quantity (direct care as well as supervisory staff) and quality to meet the needs of the residents
as determined by resident assessments and individual plans of care. The facility must strive to
staff in a way that optimizes familiarity with residents. The principles for quality include, but
are not limited to, the facility ensuring that nursing assistants are able to demonstrate
competency in skills and techniques necessary to care for residents' needs as identified through
resident assessments, and as described in the plan of care. (See F498) Surveyors should focus
on observations of staff interactions with residents who have dementia to determine whether staff
consistently applies basic principles for quality in the provision of care.

Nursing assistants must receive a performance review at least once every 12 months and receive
regular in-service education based on the outcome of the reviews. (See F497) In addition, the
facility must provide training in care of individuals with dementia and related behaviors to
nursing assistants when initially hired and annually thereafter.

Research on caregivers of people with dementia suggests that caregiver stress can have a
significant impact on outcomes and behavioral expressions of distress in the individual with
dementia. This may be true for family, community or institutional caregivers. Some facilities may
have systems in place to assist their staff in identifying, addressing and supporting staff who may
exhibit caregiver stress. See the Additional Resources section here for an example of tools to
assess caregiver stress.

Involvement of the Medical Team
During observations and record review, if potential medical causes of behavior or other
symptoms (such as those indicating possible delirium or infection) were identified, determine
whether the attending physician was contacted promptly and a workup and/or treatment were
initiated. (See F157 and F385) Residents who exhibit new or worsening BPSD should have an
evaluation by the interdisciplinary team, including the physician and knowledgeable staff, in
order to identify and address, to the extent possible, treatable medical, physical, emotional,
psychiatric, psychological, functional, social, and environmental factors that may be
contributing to behaviors, in order to develop a comprehensive plan of care to address
expressions of distress. If a medication(s) was ordered, determine if the staff and practitioner
 identified and the medical record reflected documentation of the appropriate indication(s) for
use. (See F329, Table 1 and F428) For a resident who is receiving any type of
psychopharmacologic medication, staff must attempt non-pharmacological interventions, unless
clinically contraindicated. (See F329 and F428)

None of the guidance to surveyors should be construed as evaluating the practice of medicine.
Surveyors are instructed to evaluate the process of care, including the communication among the
prescriber/practitioner, pharmacist, interdisciplinary team, resident or family/representative,
and the review of the nursing home practice to prevent unnecessary use of
psychopharmacological medications and to closely monitor those medications when they are
used. Interviews with the attending physician or other primary care provider (e.g., NP, PA,
CNS), medical director, behavioral health specialist and other team members help clarify the
reasons for using a psychopharmacological medication or any other interventions for a specific
resident. In addition, interviewing the medical director with regard to policies and procedures
for behavioral health and psychopharmacological medication use is strongly encouraged.

F. Monitoring and Follow-up:
It is important that surveyors evaluate whether or not a facility used the steps identified above to
develop the plan of care. To meet requirements related to monitoring and follow-up of care plan
implementation, surveyors evaluate whether or not the interdisciplinary team reviewed a
resident's progress towards defined goals, adjusted interventions as needed, and identified when
care objectives were met. Monitoring and follow-up of care plan implementation includes, but is
not limited to, the following:

 Staff monitors and documents (See F514) the implementation of the care plan, identifies
 effectiveness of interventions relative to target behaviors and/or psychological symptoms
 and changes in a resident's level of distress or emergence of adverse consequences.

 In collaboration with the practitioner, staff adjusts the interventions based on the
 effectiveness and/or adverse consequences related to treatment. (See F280, F329, F428)

 If concerns are identified related to the effectiveness or potential or actual adverse
 consequences of a resident's medication regimen, staff must notify the physician and the
 physician must respond and, as necessary, initiate a change to the resident's care. (F157,
 F385, F428)

 If the physician does not provide a timely and appropriate response to the notification,
 staff must contact the medical director for further review, and if the medical director was
 contacted, he/she must respond and intervene as needed. (See F501)

G. Quality Assessment and Assurance (QAA):

 NOTE: Refer to F520 Quality Assessment and Assurance for guidance regarding
 information that is obtainable from the QAA committee.
 This guidance addresses the evaluation of a facility's systemic approaches to deliver care and
services for a resident with dementia. The medical director and the quality assessment and
assurance committee can help the facility evaluate existing strategies for coordinating the care
of a resident with dementia and ensure that facility policies and procedures are consistent with
current standards of practice.

During interviews with the staff responsible for the QAA functions, determine whether the QAA
committee has identified and corrected, as indicated, any quality deficiencies related to the care
of residents with dementia. In addition, determine whether the QAA committee has monitored
and overseen the following areas related to dementia care:

 Whether resident care policies reflect the facility's overall approach to the care of
 residents with dementia including a clearly outlined process for their care (see also
 F501);

 How the facility monitors whether staff follow related policies and procedures in
 choosing and implementing individualized interventions for the care of each resident
 with dementia;

 Whether the facility has trained staff (such as nursing, dietary, therapy or
 rehabilitation staff, social workers) in how to communicate with and address
 behaviors in residents with dementia and were the trainings evaluated for
 effectiveness, including initial and annual dementia care training for CNAs (See F495
 and F497);

 Whether there is sufficient staff to implement the care plan for residents with
 dementia, so that medication is not used instead of pertinent non-pharmacological
 interventions, unless clinically contraindicated (See F353 and F222);

 Whether staff collect and analyze data to monitor the pharmacological and non-
 pharmacological interventions used to care for residents with dementia; and

 How the committee helps the facility monitor responses to the issues and concerns
 identified through the consultant pharmacist medication regimen review. (See F329
 and F428)

Criteria for Compliance (F309)

Compliance at F309, care for persons with dementia, is based upon a set of key principles. For a
resident with dementia, the facility is in compliance with F309, care for persons with dementia, if
they:

 1. Obtained details about the person's behaviors (nature, frequency, severity, and
 duration) and risks of those behaviors, and discussed potential underlying causes with
 the care team and (to the extent possible) resident, family or representative;
 2. Excluded potentially remediable (medical, medication-related, psychiatric, physical,
 functional, psychosocial, emotional, environmental) causes of behaviors and determined
 if symptoms were severe, distressing or risky enough to adversely affect the safety of
 residents;

 3. Implemented environmental and other approaches in an attempt to understand and
 address behavior as a form of communication and modified the environment and daily
 routines to meet the person's needs;

 4. Implemented the care plan consistently and communicated across shifts and among
 caregivers and with the resident or family/representative (to the extent possible); and

 5. Assessed the effects of the approaches, identified benefits and complications in a
 timely fashion, involved the attending physician and medical director as appropriate, and
 adjusted treatment accordingly.

 If not, cite F309.

 (For residents with dementia for whom antipsychotic or other medications were prescribed,
 surveyors must also assess for compliance using guidance at F329, Unnecessary
 Medications).

Review of a Resident with Non Pressure-Related Skin Ulcer/Wound.

Residents may develop various types of skin ulceration. At the time of the assessment and
diagnosis of a skin ulcer/wound, the clinician is expected to document the clinical basis (e.g.,
underlying condition contributing to the ulceration, ulcer edges and wound bed, location, shape,
condition of surrounding tissues) which permit differentiating the ulcer type, especially if the
ulcer has characteristics consistent with a pressure ulcer, but is determined not to be one. This
section differentiates some of the different types of skin ulcers/wounds.

NOTE: Guidance regarding pressure ulcers is found at 42 CFR 483.25 (c), F314 Pressure
 Sore. Use F309 for issues of quality of care regarding non-pressure related ulcers.

An arterial ulcer is ulceration that occurs as the result of arterial occlusive disease when non-
pressure related disruption or blockage of the arterial blood flow to an area causes tissue
necrosis. Inadequate blood supply to the extremity may initially present as intermittent
claudication. Arterial/Ischemic ulcers may be present in individuals with moderate to severe
peripheral vascular disease, generalized arteriosclerosis, inflammatory or autoimmune disorders
(such as arteritis), or significant vascular disease elsewhere (e.g., stroke or heart attack). The
arterial ulcer is characteristically painful, usually occurs in the distal portion of the lower
extremity and may be over the ankle or bony areas of the foot (e.g., top of the foot or toe, outside
edge of the foot). The wound bed is frequently dry and pale with minimal or no exudate. The
affected foot may exhibit: diminished or absent pedal pulse, coolness to touch, decreased pain
 when hanging down (dependent) or increased pain when elevated, blanching upon elevation,
delayed capillary fill time, hair loss on top of the foot and toes, toenail thickening.

A venous ulcer (previously known as a stasis ulcer) is an open lesion of the skin and
subcutaneous tissue of the lower leg, often occurring in the lower leg around the medial ankle.
Venous ulcers are reported to be the most common vascular ulceration and may be difficult to
heal, may occur off and on for several years, and may occur after relatively minor trauma. The
ulcer may have a moist, granulating wound bed, may be superficial, and may have minimal to
copious serous drainage unless the wound is infected. The resident may experience pain that may
increase when the foot is in a dependent position, such as when a resident is seated with her or
his feet on the floor.

Recent literature implicates venous hypertension as a causative factor. Venous hypertension may
be caused by one (or a combination of) factor(s) including: loss of (or compromised) valve
function in the vein, partial or complete obstruction of the vein (e.g., deep vein thrombosis,
obesity, malignancy), and/or failure of the calf muscle to pump the blood (e.g., paralysis,
decreased activity). Venous insufficiency may result in edema and induration, dilated superficial
veins, dry scaly crusts, dark pigmented skin in the lower third of the leg, or dermatitis. The
pigmentation may appear as darkening skin, tan or purple areas in light skinned residents and
dark purple, black or dark brown in dark skinned residents. Cellulitis may be present if the tissue
is infected.

A diabetic neuropathic ulcer requires that the resident be diagnosed with diabetes mellitus and
have peripheral neuropathy. The diabetic ulcer characteristically occurs on the foot, e.g., at mid-
foot, at the ball of the foot over the metatarsal heads, or on the top of toes with Charcot
deformity.

Review of a Resident Receiving Hospice Services.

When a facility resident has also elected the Medicare hospice benefit, the hospice and the
nursing home must communicate, establish, and agree upon a coordinated plan of care for both
providers which reflects the hospice philosophy, and is based on an assessment of the
individual's needs and unique living situation in the facility. The plan of care must include
directives for managing pain and other uncomfortable symptoms and be revised and updated as
necessary to reflect the individual's current status. This coordinated plan of care must identify the
care and services which the SNF/NF and hospice will provide in order to be responsive to the
unique needs of the patient/resident and his/her expressed desire for hospice care.

The SNF/NF and the hospice are responsible for performing each of their respective functions
that have been agreed upon and included in the plan of care. The hospice retains overall
professional management responsibility for directing the implementation of the plan of care
related to the terminal illness and related conditions.

For a resident receiving hospice benefit care, evaluate if:
 The facility completed a MDS Significant Change in Status Assessment (SCSA) when

 the resident elected the hospice benefit;

 The facility completed a MDS Significant Change in Status Assessment (SCSA) when

 the resident revoked the hospice benefit;

 The plan of care reflects the participation of the hospice, the facility, and the resident or

 representative to the extent possible;

 The plan of care includes directives for managing pain and other uncomfortable

 symptoms and is revised and updated as necessary to reflect the resident's current status;

 Medications and medical supplies are provided by the hospice as needed for the palliation

 and management of the terminal illness and related conditions;

 The hospice and the facility communicate with each other when any changes are indicated

 to the plan of care;

 The hospice and the facility are aware of the other's responsibilities in implementing the

 plan of care;

 The facility's services are consistent with the plan of care developed in coordination with

 the hospice, (the hospice patient residing in a SNF/NF should not experience any lack of
 SNF/NF services or personal care because of his/her status as a hospice patient); and

 The SNF/NF offers the same services to its residents who have elected the hospice benefit

 as it furnishes to its residents who have not elected the hospice benefit. The resident has
 the right to refuse services in conjunction with the provisions of 42 CFR 483.10(b)(4), Tag
 F155.

NOTE: If a resident is receiving services from a Medicare certified hospice and the hospice
 was advised of concerns by the facility and failed to address and/or resolve issues
 related to coordination of care or implementation of appropriate services, refer the
 concerns as a complaint to the State Agency responsible for oversight of this hospice,
 identifying the specific resident(s) involved and the concerns identified.

Review of a Resident Receiving Dialysis Services.

When dialysis is provided in the facility by an outside entity, or the resident leaves the facility to
obtain dialysis, the nursing home should have an agreement or arrangement with the entity. This
agreement/arrangement should include all aspects of how the resident's care is to be managed,
including:
 Medical and non-medical emergencies;

 Development and implementation of the resident's care plan;

 Interchange of information useful/necessary for the care of the resident; and

 Responsibility for waste handling, sterilization, and disinfection of equipment.

If there is a sampled resident who is receiving dialysis care, evaluate the following, in addition to
the standard Resident Review protocol:

 Review to assure that medications are administered before and after dialysis as ordered by

 the physician. This should account for the optimal timing to maximize effectiveness and
 avoid adverse effects of the medications;

 Whether staff know how to manage emergencies and complications, including equipment

 failure and alarm systems (if any), bleeding/hemorrhaging, and infection/bacteremia/septic
 shock;

 Whether facility staff are aware of the care of shunts/fistulas, infection control, waste

 handling, nature and management of end stage renal disease (including nutritional needs,
 emotional and social well-being, and aspects to monitor); and

 Whether the treatment for this (these) resident(s), affects the quality of life, rights or

 quality of care for other residents, e.g., restricting access to their own space, risk of
 infections.

NOTE: If a resident is receiving services from a dialysis provider, and the survey team has
 concerns about the quality of care and services provided to the resident by that
 provider, refer the concerns as a complaint to the State Agency responsible for
 oversight of the dialysis provider, identifying the specific resident(s) involved and the
 concerns identified.

Review of a Resident Who has Pain Symptoms, is being Treated for Pain, or Who has the
Potential for Pain Symptoms Related to Conditions or Treatments.

Recognition and Management of Pain - In order to help a resident attain or maintain his or her
highest practicable level of well-being and to prevent or manage pain, the facility, to the extent
possible:

 Recognizes when the resident is experiencing pain and identifies circumstances when
 pain can be anticipated;
 Evaluates the existing pain and the cause(s), and

 Manages or prevents pain, consistent with the comprehensive assessment and plan of
 care, current clinical standards of practice, and the resident's goals and preferences.

Definitions Related to Recognition and Management of Pain

 Addiction is a primary, chronic, neurobiological disease, with genetic, psychosocial,

 and environmental factors influencing its development and manifestations. It is

 characterized by an overwhelming craving for medication or behaviors that include one or

 more of the following: impaired control over drug use, compulsive use, continued use
 despite harm, and craving.1

 "Adjuvant Analgesics" describes any medication with a primary indication other than
 pain management but with analgesic properties in some painful conditions.2

 Adverse Consequence is an unpleasant symptom or event that is due to or associated
 with a medication, such as impairment or decline in a resident's mental or physical
 condition or functional or psychosocial status. It may include various types of adverse
 drug reactions and interactions (e.g., medication-medication, medication-food, and
 medication-disease).

NOTE: Adverse drug reaction (ADR) is a form of adverse consequences. It may be
 either a secondary effect of a medication that is usually undesirable and
 different from the therapeutic effect of the medication or any response to a
 medication that is noxious and unintended and occurs in doses for
 prophylaxis, diagnosis, or treatment. The term side effect is often used
 interchangeably with ADR; however, side effects are but one of five ADR
 categories, the others being hypersensitivity, idiosyncratic response, toxic
 reactions, and adverse medication interactions. A side effect is an expected,
 well-known reaction that occurs with a predictable frequency and may or
 may not constitute an adverse consequence.

 Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) is a group of diverse medical and

 health care systems, practices, and products that are not presently considered to be a part
 of conventional medicine.3

 Non-pharmacological interventions refers to approaches to care that do not involve
 medications, generally directed towards stabilizing or improving a resident's mental,
 physical or psychosocial well-being.

 Pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience that can be acute, recurrent or
 persistent.4 Following are descriptions of several different types of pain:

- Acute Pain is generally pain of abrupt onset and limited duration, often
 associated with an adverse chemical, thermal or mechanical stimulus such as
 surgery, trauma and acute illness;

 - Breakthrough Pain refers to an episodic increase in (flare-up) pain in someone
 whose pain is generally being managed by his/her current medication regimen;

 - Incident Pain refers to pain that is typically predictable and is related to a
 precipitating event such as movement (e.g., walking, transferring, or dressing) or
 certain actions (e.g., disimpaction or wound care); and

 - Persistent Pain or Chronic Pain refers to a pain state that continues for a
 prolonged period of time or recurs more than intermittently for months or years.

 Physical Dependence is a physiologic state of neuroadaptation that is characterized by
 a withdrawal syndrome if a medication or drug is stopped or decreased abruptly, or if an
 antagonist is administered.

 Standards of Practice refers to approaches to care, procedures, techniques, treatments,
 etc., that are based on research and/or expert consensus and that are contained in current
 manuals, textbooks, or publications, or that are accepted, adopted or promulgated by
 recognized professional organizations or national accrediting bodies.

 Tolerance is a physiologic state resulting from regular use of a drug in which an
 increased dosage is needed to produce the same effect or a reduced effect is observed
 with a constant dose.5

Overview of Pain Recognition and Management

Effective pain recognition and management requires an ongoing facility-wide commitment to
resident comfort, to identifying and addressing barriers to managing pain, and to addressing any
misconceptions that residents, families, and staff may have about managing pain. Nursing home
residents are at high risk for having pain that may affect function, impair mobility, impair mood,
or disturb sleep, and diminish quality of life.6 The onset of acute pain may indicate a new injury
or a potentially life-threatening condition or illness. It is important, therefore, that a resident's
reports of pain, or nonverbal signs suggesting pain, be evaluated.

The resident's needs and goals as well as the etiology, type, and severity of pain are relevant to
developing a plan for pain management. It should be noted that while analgesics can reduce pain
and enhance the quality of life, they do not necessarily address the underlying cause of pain. It is
important to consider treating the underlying cause, where possible. Addressing underlying
causes may permit pain management with fewer analgesics, lower doses, or medications with a
lower risk of serious adverse consequences.

Certain factors may affect the recognition, assessment, and management of pain. For example,
residents, staff, or practitioners may misunderstand the indications for, and benefits and risks of,
 opioids and other analgesics; or they may mistakenly believe that older individuals have a higher
tolerance for pain than younger individuals, or that pain is an inevitable part of aging, a sign of
weakness, or a way just to get attention. Other challenges to successfully evaluating and
managing pain may include communication difficulties due to illness or language and cultural
barriers, stoicism about pain, and cognitive impairment.7,8,9

It is a challenge to assess and manage pain in individuals who have cognitive impairment or
communications difficulties.10,11 Some individuals with advanced cognitive impairment can
accurately report pain and/or respond to questions regarding pain.12,13 One study noted that 83
percent of nursing home residents could respond to questions about pain intensity. 14

Those who cannot report pain may present with nonspecific signs such as grimacing, increases in
confusion or restlessness or other distressed behavior. Effective pain management may decrease
distressed behaviors that are related to pain. 15 However, these nonspecific signs and symptoms
may reflect other clinically significant conditions (e.g., delirium, depression, or medication-
related adverse consequences) instead of, or in addition to, pain. To distinguish these various
causes of similar signs and symptoms, and in order to manage pain effectively, it is important to
evaluate (e.g., touch, look at, move) the resident in detail, to confirm that the signs and symptoms
are due to pain.

Resources Related to Pain Management

Examples of clinical resources available for guidance regarding the assessment and management
of pain include:

 American Geriatrics Society Clinical Practice Guideline at:
 http://www.americangeriatrics.org/education/cp_index.shtml;

 American Medical Directors Association (AMDA) Clinical Practice Guideline Pain
 Management in the Long-Term Care Setting (2003) at:
 www.amda.com/tools/guidelines.cfm;

 American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine at www.aahpm.org;

 American Academy of Pain Medicine at http://www.painmed.org;

 American Pain Society at www.ampainsoc.org;

 Brown University's Pain and Physical Symptoms Toolkit at
 http://www.chcr.brown.edu/pcoc/physical.htm;

 Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association at http://www.hpna.org;

 John A Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing "Try This" series at
 http://www.hartfordign.org/Resources/Try_This_Series;
 National Initiative on Pain Control at www.painedu.org;

 Partners Against Pain® at http://www.partnersagainstpain.com;

 Quality Improvement Organizations at www.medqic.org; and

 Resource Center for Pain Medicine and Palliative Care at Beth Israel Medical Center
 (2000) at http://www.stoppain.org/education_research/index.html.

NOTE References to non-U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) sources or
 sites on the Internet are provided as a service and do not constitute or imply
 endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CMS or HHS. CMS is not
 responsible for the content of pages found at these sites. URL addresses were current
 as of the date of this publication.

Care Process for Pain Management

Processes for the prevention and management of pain include:

 Assessing the potential for pain, recognizing the onset or presence of pain, and assessing

 the pain;

 Addressing/treating the underlying causes of the pain, to the extent possible;

 Developing and implementing interventions/approaches to pain management, depending

 on factors such as whether the pain is episodic, continuous, or both;

 Identifying and using specific strategies for different levels or sources of pain or pain-

 related symptoms, including:

 - Identifying interventions to address the pain based on the resident-specific
 assessment, a pertinent clinical rationale, and the resident's goals;

 Trying to prevent or minimize anticipated pain;16

 Considering non-pharmacological and CAM interventions;

 - Using pain medications judiciously to balance the resident's desired level of pain
 relief with the avoidance of unacceptable adverse consequences;

 Monitoring appropriately for effectiveness and/or adverse consequences (e.g.,

 constipation, sedation) including defining how and when to monitor the resident's
 symptoms and degree of pain relief; and

 Modifying the approaches, as necessary.

Pain Recognition

Because pain can significantly affect a person's well-being, it is important that the facility
recognize and address pain promptly. The facility's evaluation of the resident at admission and
during ongoing assessments helps identify the resident who is experiencing pain or for whom
pain may be anticipated during specific procedures, care, or treatment. In addition, it is
important that a resident be monitored for the presence of pain and be evaluated when there is a
change in condition and whenever new pain or an exacerbation of pain is suspected. As with
many symptoms, pain in a resident with moderate to severe cognitive impairment may be more
difficult to recognize and assess.17,18,19

Expressions of pain may be verbal or nonverbal. A resident may avoid the use of the term
 pain. Other words used to report or describe pain may differ by culture, language and/or region
of the country. Examples of descriptions may include heaviness or pressure, stabbing, throbbing,
hurting, aching, gnawing, cramping, burning, numbness, tingling, shooting or radiating, spasms,
soreness, tenderness, discomfort, pins and needles, feeling rough, tearing or ripping. Verbal
descriptions of pain can help a practitioner identify the source, nature, and other characteristics of
the pain. Nonverbal indicators which may represent pain need to be viewed in the entire clinical
context with consideration given to pain as well as other clinically pertinent explanations.
Examples of possible indicators of pain include, but are not limited to the following:

 Negative verbalizations and vocalizations (e.g., groaning, crying/whimpering, or
 screaming);

 Facial expressions (e.g., grimacing, frowning, fright, or clenching of the jaw);

 Changes in gait (e.g., limping), skin color, vital signs (e.g., increased heart rate,
 respirations and/or blood pressure), perspiration;

 Behavior such as resisting care, distressed pacing, irritability, depressed mood, or
 decreased participation in usual physical and/or social activities;

 Loss of function or inability to perform Activities of Daily Living (ADLs), rubbing a
 specific location of the body, or guarding a limb or other body parts;

 Difficulty eating or loss of appetite; and

 Difficulty sleeping (insomnia).

In addition to the pain item sections of the MDS, many sections such as sleep cycle, change in
mood, decline in function, instability of condition, weight loss, and skin conditions can be
 potential indicators of pain. Any of these findings may indicate the need for additional and more
thorough evaluation.

Many residents have more than one active medical condition and may experience pain from
several different causes simultaneously. Many medical conditions may be painful such as
pressure ulcers, diabetes with neuropathic pain, immobility, amputation, post- CVA, venous and
arterial ulcers, multiple sclerosis, oral health conditions, and infections. In addition, common
procedures, such as moving a resident or performing physical or occupational therapies or
changing a wound dressing may be painful. Understanding the underlying causes of pain is an
important step in determining optimal approaches to prevent, minimize, or manage pain.

Observations at rest and during movement, particularly during activities that may increase pain
(such as dressing changes, exercises, turning and positioning, bathing, rising from a chair,
walking) can help to identify whether the resident is having pain. Observations during eating or
during the provision of oral hygiene may also indicate dental, mouth and/or facial pain.

Recognizing the presence of pain and identifying those situations where pain may be anticipated
involves the participation of health care professionals and direct care and ancillary staff who have
contact with the resident. Information may be obtained by talking with the resident, directly
examining the resident, and observing the resident's behavior.20 Staffing consistency and the
nursing staff's level of familiarity with the residents was reported in one study to have a
significant effect on the staff member's ability to identify and differentiate pain-related behavior
from other behavior of cognitively impaired residents.21

Nursing assistants may be the first to notice a resident's symptoms; therefore, it is important that
they are able to recognize a change in the resident and the resident's functioning and to report the
changes to a nurse for follow-up. Family members or friends may also recognize and report
when the resident experiences pain and may provide information about the resident's pain
symptoms, pain history and previously attempted interventions. Other staff, e.g., dietary,
activities, therapy, housekeeping, who have direct contact with the resident may also report
changes in resident behavior or resident complaints of pain.

Assessment

Observing the resident during care, activities, and treatments helps not only to detect whether
pain is present, but also to potentially identify its location and the limitations it places on the
resident. The facility must complete the Resident Assessment Instrument (RAI) (See 42 CFR
483.20 F272). According to the CMS Long-Term Care Facility Resident Assessment Instrument
User's Manual, Version 3.0, Chapter 1, "Good clinical practice is an expectation of CMS. As
such, it is important to note that completion of the MDS does not remove a nursing home's
responsibility to document a more detailed assessment of particular issues relevant for a
resident….documentation that contributes to identification and communication of residents'
problems, needs and strengths, that monitors their condition on an on-going basis, and that
records treatment and response to treatment is a matter of good clinical practice and is an
expectation of trained and licensed health care professionals. An assessment or an evaluation of
 pain based on clinical standards of practice may necessitate gathering the following information,
as applicable to the resident:

 History of pain and its treatment (including non-pharmacological and pharmacological

 treatment);

 Characteristics of pain, such as:

 - Intensity of pain (e.g., as measured on a standardized pain scale);

 - Descriptors of pain (e.g., burning, stabbing, tingling, aching);

 - Pattern of pain (e.g., constant or intermittent);

 - Location and radiation of pain;

 - Frequency, timing and duration of pain;

 Impact of pain on quality of life (e.g., sleeping, functioning, appetite, and mood);

 Factors such as activities, care, or treatment that precipitate or exacerbate pain;

 Strategies and factors that reduce pain;

 Additional symptoms associated with pain (e.g., nausea, anxiety);

 Physical examination (may include the pain site, the nervous system, mobility and

 function, and physical, psychological and cognitive status);

 Current medical conditions and medications; or

 The resident's goals for pain management and his or her satisfaction with the current

 level of pain control.

Management of Pain

Based on the evaluation, the facility, in collaboration with the attending physician/prescriber,
other health care professionals, and the resident and/or his/her representative, develops,
implements, monitors and revises as necessary interventions to prevent or manage each
individual resident's pain, beginning at admission. These interventions may be integrated into
components of the comprehensive care plan, addressing conditions or situations that may be
associated with pain, or may be included as a specific pain management need or goal.
 The interdisciplinary team and the resident collaborate to arrive at pertinent, realistic and
measurable goals for treatment, such as reducing pain sufficiently to allow the resident to
ambulate comfortably to the dining room for each meal or to participate in 30 minutes of physical
therapy. Depending on the situation and the resident's wishes, the target may be to reduce the
pain level, but not necessarily to become pain-free. To the extent possible, the interdisciplinary
team educates the resident and/or representative about the need to report pain when it occurs and
about the various approaches to pain management and the need to monitor the effectiveness of
the interventions used.

The basis for effective interventions includes several considerations, such as the resident's needs
and goals; the source(s), type and severity of pain (recognizing that the resident may experience
pain from one or more sources either simultaneously or at different times) and awareness of the
available treatment options. Often, sequential trials of various treatment options are needed to
develop the most effective approach.

It is important for pain management approaches to follow pertinent clinical standards of practice
and to identify who is to be involved in managing the pain and implementing the care or
supplying the services (e.g., facility staff, such as RN, LPN, CNA; attending physician or other
practitioner; certified hospice; or other contractors such as therapists). Pertinent current
standards of practice may provide recommended approaches to pain management even when the
cause cannot be or has not been determined.

If a resident or the resident's representative elects the Medicare hospice benefit for end-of-life
care, the facility remains the resident's primary care giver and the SNF/NF requirements for
participation in Medicare or Medicaid still apply for that resident. According to the Medicare
Hospice Conditions of Participation at 42 CFR 418.112(b) Standard: Professional Management,
"The hospice must assume responsibility for professional management of the resident's hospice
services provided, in accordance with the hospice plan of care and the hospice conditions of
participation, and make nay arrangements necessary for hospice-related inpatient care in a
participating Medicare/Medicaid facility according to §418.100 and §418.112(b)." The care of
the resident, including pain management, must be appropriately coordinated among all providers.

In order to provide effective pain management, it is important that staff be educated and guided
regarding the proper evaluation and management of pain as reflected in or consistent with the
protocols, policies, and procedures employed by the facility.

Non-pharmacological interventions

Non-pharmacologic interventions may help manage pain effectively when used either
independently or in conjunction with pharmacologic agents.22 Examples of non-pharmacologic
approaches may include, but are not limited to:

 Altering the environment for comfort (such as adjusting room temperature, tightening and
 smoothing linens, using pressure redistributing mattress and positioning, comfortable
 seating, and assistive devices);
 Physical modalities, such as ice packs or cold compresses (to reduce swelling and lessen
 sensation), mild heat (to decrease joint stiffness and increase blood flow to an area),
 neutral body alignment and repositioning, baths, transcutaneous electrical nerve
 stimulation (TENS), massage, acupuncture/acupressure, chiropractic, or rehabilitation
 therapy;

 Exercises to address stiffness and prevent contractures; and

 Cognitive/Behavioral interventions (e.g., relaxation techniques, reminiscing, diversions,
 activities, music therapy, coping techniques and education about pain).

The list of Complementary and Alternative Medicine (CAM) options is evolving, as those
therapies that are proven safe and effective are used more widely.

NOTE: Information on CAM may be found on the following sites:

 National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine at www.nccam.nih.gov;
 and

 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) at www.fda.gov.

Because CAM can include herbal supplements, some of which potentially can interact with
prescribed medications, it is important that any such agents are recorded in the resident's chart
for evaluation by the physician and consultant pharmacist.

Pharmacological interventions

The interdisciplinary team (nurses, practitioner, pharmacists, etc.) is responsible for developing a
pain management regimen that is specific to each resident who has pain or who has the potential
for pain, such as during a treatment. The regimen considers factors such as the causes, location,
and severity of the pain, the potential benefits, risks and adverse consequences of medications;
and the resident's desired level of relief and tolerance for adverse consequences. The resident
may accept partial pain relief in order to experience fewer significant adverse consequences (e.g.,
desire to stay alert instead of experiencing drowsiness/confusion). The interdisciplinary team
works with the resident to identify the most effective and acceptable route for the administration
of analgesics, such as orally, topically, by injection, by infusion pump, and/or transdermally.

It is important to follow a systematic approach for selecting medications and doses to treat pain.
Developing an effective pain management regimen may require repeated attempts to identify the
right interventions. General guidelines for choosing appropriate categories of medications in
various situations are widely available. 23,24

Factors influencing the selection and doses of medications include the resident's medical
condition, current medication regimen, nature, severity, and cause of the pain and the course of
 the illness. Analgesics may help manage pain; however, they often do not address the underlying
cause of pain. Examples of different approaches may include, but are not limited to:
administering lower doses of medication initially and titrating the dose slowly upward,
administering medications around the clock rather than on demand (PRN); or combining
longer acting medications with PRN medications for breakthrough pain. Recurrent use of or
repeated requests for PRN medications may indicate the need to reevaluate the situation,
including the current medication regimen. Some clinical conditions or situations may require
using several analgesics and/or adjuvant medications (e.g., antidepressants or anticonvulsants)
together. Documentation helps to clarify the rationale for a treatment regimen and to
acknowledge associated risks.

Opioids or other potent analgesics have been used for residents who are actively dying, those
with complex pain syndromes, and those with more severe acute or chronic pain that has not
responded to non-opioid analgesics or other measures. Opioids should be selected and dosed in
accordance with current standards of practice and manufacturers' guidelines in order to optimize
their effectiveness and minimize their adverse consequences. Adverse consequences may be
especially problematic when the resident is receiving other medications with significant effects
on the cardiovascular and central nervous systems. Therefore, careful titration of dosages based
on monitoring/evaluating the effectiveness of the medication and the occurrence of adverse
consequences is necessary. The clinical record should reflect the ongoing communication
between the prescriber and the staff is necessary for the optimal and judicious use of pain
medications.

Other interventions have been used for some residents with more advanced, complex, or poorly
controlled pain. Examples include, but are not limited to: radiation therapy, neurostimulation,
spinal delivery of analgesics (implanted catheters and pump systems), and neurolytic procedures
(chemical or surgical) 25 that are administered under the close supervision of expert practitioners.

Monitoring, Reassessment, and Care Plan Revision

Monitoring the resident over time helps identify the extent to which pain is controlled, relative to
the individual's goals and the availability of effective treatment. The ongoing evaluation of the
status (presence, increase or reduction) of a resident's pain is vital, including the status of
underlying causes, the response to interventions to prevent or manage pain, and the possible
presence of adverse consequences of treatment. Adverse consequences related to analgesics can
often be anticipated and to some extent prevented or reduced. For example, opioids routinely
cause constipation, which may be minimized by an appropriate bowel regimen.

Identifying target signs and symptoms (including verbal reports and non-verbal indicators from
the resident) and using standardized assessment tools can help the interdisciplinary team evaluate
the resident's pain and responses to interventions and determine whether the care plan should be
revised, for example:

 If pain has not been adequately controlled, it may be necessary to reconsider the current

 approaches and revise or supplement them as indicated; or
 If pain has resolved or there is no longer an indication or need for pain medication, the

 facility works with the practitioner to discontinue or taper (as needed to prevent
 withdrawal symptoms) analgesics.

Endnotes for Pain Management

1Definitions Related to the Use of Opioids for the Treatment of Pain: Consensus document from
 the American Academy of Pain Medicine, the American Pain Society, and the American
 Society of Addiction Medicine, 2001. Document available at www.painmed.org,
 www.ampainsoc.org and www.asam.org.

2Lussier, D., Huskey, A.G., & Portenoy, R.K. (2004). Adjuvant analgesics in cancer pain
 management. The Oncologist, 9, 571-591.

3National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. (2002). What is complementary
 and alternative medicine? NCCAM Publication, No. D156. Retrieved 3/06/06 from
 www.nccam.nih.gov.

4American Medical Directors Association. (2003). Clinical Practice Guideline: Pain
 Management in the Long Term Care Setting. AMDA. Columbia: MD. Retrieved
 3/06/06 from www.amda.com.

5The Federation of State Medical Boards. (2004). Model Policy for the Use of Controlled
 Substances for the Treatment of Pain. Retrieved 3/06/06 from
 http://www.fsmb.org/pdf/2004_grpol_controlled_substances.pdf.

6American Geriatrics Society: AGS Panel on Persistent Pain in Older Persons. (2002). Clinical
 Practice Guidelines: The management of persistent pain in older persons. Journal of the
 American Geriatrics Society, 50, S205-S224.

7Yong, H.H., Gibson, S.J., De L Home, D.J., & Hleme, R.D. (2001). Development of a pain
 attitudes questionnaire to assess stoicism and cautiousness for possible age differences
 [Electronic version]. The Journals of Gerontology, 56, 279-284.

8Jones, K., Fink, R., Clark, L., Hutt, E., Vijor, C. & Mellis, K. (2005). Nursing Home Resident
 Barriers to Effective Pain Management: Why Nursing Home Residents May Not Seek
 Pain Medication. Journal of the American Medical Directors Association, 6(1): 10-17.

9Cohen-Mansfield J. (2006). Pain Assessment in Noncommunicative Elderly Persons PAINE.
 Clinical Journal of Pain. July/August; 22(6): 569-575.

10Won, A.B., Lapane, K.L., Vallow, S., Schein, J., Morris, J.N., & Lipsitz L.A. (2004).
 Persistent nonmalignant pain and analgesic prescribing patterns in elderly nursing home
 residents. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 52, 867-876.
 11Teno, J.M., Weitzen, S., Wetle, T., & Mor, V. (2001). Persistent pain in nursing home
 residents. Journal of the American Medical Association, 285, 2081.

12Cohen-Mansfield J. (2005). Self-report of pain in nursing home residents with dementia: a
 comparison of assessments. American Journal of Pain Management, 15, 128-139.

13Pautex S., Michon A., Guedira M., Emond, H., Le Lous, P., Samaras, D., Michel, JP,
 Herrmann, F., Giannakopoulos, P., Gold, G. (2006). Pain in severe dementia: self-
 assessment of observational scales? Journal of American Geriatric Society, 54(7), 1040-
 5.

14Ferrell BA, Ferrell BR, Rivera L. (1995). Pain in cognitively impaired nursing home patients.
 Journal of Pain and Symptom Management, 10, 591-8.

15Chibnall, J.T., Tait, R.C., Harman, B. (2005). Effect of acetaminophen on behavior, well-being,
 and psychotropic medication use in nursing home residents with moderate-to-severe
 dementia. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 53(11), 1921-1929.

16World Union of Wound Healing Societies. (2006). Principles of best practice: Minimising pain
 at wound dressing-related procedures: A consensus document. World Council of
 Enterostomal Therapists Journal, 26(2), 26-38.

17Cohen-Mansfield, J. & Lipson, S. (2002). Pain in cognitively impaired nursing home residents:
 How well are physicians diagnosing it? Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 50,
 1039-1044.

18Cohen-Mansfield, J. & Lipson, S. (2002). The underdetection of pain of dental etiology in
 persons with dementia. American Journal of Alzheimer's Disease and Other Dementias,
 17(4), 249-253.

19Herr, K., Bjoro, K, & Decker, S. (2006). Tools for the assessment of pain in nonverbal older
 adults with dementia: A state-of-the-science review. Journal of Pain and Symptom
 Management, 31(2), 170-192.

20Lin, Wen-Chieh; Lum, Terry Y.; Mehr, David R.; Kane, Robert L. (2006). Measuring Pain
 Presence and Intensity in Nursing Home Residents. Journal of the American Medical
 Directors Association, 7(3), 147-153.

21Cohen-Mansfield, J. & Creedon, M. (2002). Nursing staff members' perceptions of pain
 indicators in persons with severe dementia. The Clinical Journal of Pain, 18(1), 64-73.

22Ferrell, B.A. (1995). Pain evaluation and management in the nursing home. Annals of Internal
 Medicine, 123, 681-687.

23World Health Organization (WHO) pain ladder:
 www.who.int/cancer/palliative/painladder/en
 24American Medical Directors Association (AMDA) Clinical Practice Guideline Pain
Management in the Long-Term Care Setting (2003) at:

 www.amda.com/tools/guidelines.cfm

25Bernstein, C., Lateef, B., Fine, P.G. Interventional Pain Management Procedures in Older
 Patients. In: Gibson S, Weiner D, eds. Pain in Older Persons. IASP Press, Seattle, 2005.

Investigative Protocol for Pain Management

Quality of Care Related to the Recognition and Management of Pain

Objective

The objective of this protocol is to determine whether the facility has provided and the resident
has received care and services to address and manage the resident's pain in order to support his
or her highest practicable level of physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in accordance
with the comprehensive assessment and plan of care.

Use

Use this protocol for a resident who has pain symptoms or who has the potential for pain
symptoms related to conditions or treatments. This includes a resident:

 Who states he/she has pain or discomfort;

 Who displays possible indicators of pain that cannot be readily attributed to another
 cause;

 Who has a disease or condition or who receives treatments that cause or can reasonably
 be anticipated to cause pain;

 Whose assessment indicates that he/she experiences pain;

 Who receives or has orders for treatment for pain; and/or

 Who has elected a hospice benefit for pain management.

Procedures

Briefly review the care plan and orders to identify any current pain management interventions
and to focus observations. Corroborate observations by interview and record review.

NOTE: Determine who is involved in the pain management process (for example, the
 staff and practitioner, and/or another entity such as a licensed/certified hospice).
 1. Observation

Observe the resident during various activities, shifts, and interactions with staff. Use the
observations to determine:

 If the resident exhibits signs or symptoms of pain, verbalizes the presence of pain, or
 requests interventions for pain, or whether the pain appears to affect the resident's
 function or ability to participate in routine care or activities;

 If there is evidence of pain, whether staff have assessed the situation, identified, and
 implemented interventions to try to prevent or address the pain and have evaluated the
 status of the resident's pain after interventions;

 If care and services are being provided that reasonably could be anticipated to cause pain,
 whether staff have identified and addressed these issues, to the extent possible;

 Staff response, if there is a report from the resident, family, or staff that the resident is
 experiencing pain;

 If there are pain management interventions for the resident, whether the staff implements
 them. Follow up on:

 - Deviations from the care plan;

 - Whether pain management interventions have a documented rationale and if it is
 consistent with current standards of practice; and

 - Potential adverse consequence(s) associated with treatment for pain (e.g.,
 medications); and

 How staff responded, if the interventions implemented did not reduce the pain consistent
 with the goals for pain management.

2. Resident/Representative Interviews

Interview the resident, or representative to the degree possible in order to determine the
resident's/representative's involvement in the development of the care plan, defining the
approaches and goals, and if interventions reflect choices and preferences, and how they are
involved in developing and revising pain management strategies; revisions to the care plan, if the
interventions do not work. If the resident is presently or periodically experiencing pain,
determine:
 Characteristics of the pain, including the intensity, type (e.g., burning, stabbing, tingling,
 aching), pattern of pain (e.g., constant or intermittent), location and radiation of pain and
 frequency, timing and duration of pain;

 Factors that may precipitate or alleviate the pain;

 How the resident typically has expressed pain and responded to various interventions in
 the past;

 Who the resident and/or representative has told about the pain/discomfort, and how the
 staff responded;

 What treatment options (e.g., pharmacological and/or non-pharmacological) were
 discussed;

 How effective the interventions have been; and

 If interventions have been refused, whether there was a discussion of the potential impact
 on the resident, and whether alternatives or other approaches were offered.

3. Nurse Aide(s) Interview. Interview staff who provide direct care on various shifts to
 determine:

 If they are aware of a resident's pain complaints or of signs and symptoms that could
 indicate the presence of pain;

 To whom they report the resident's complaints and signs, or symptoms; and

 If they are aware of, and implement, interventions for pain/discomfort management for
 the resident consistent with the resident's plan of care, (for example, allowing a period of
 time for a pain medication to take effect before bathing and/or dressing).

4. Record review

Assessment. Review information such as orders, medication administration records,
multidisciplinary progress notes, The RAI/MDS, and any specific assessments regarding pain
that may have been completed. Determine if the information accurately and comprehensively
reflects the resident's condition, such as:

 Identifies the pain indicators and the characteristics, causes, and contributing factors
 related to pain;

 Identifies a history of pain and related interventions, including the effectiveness and any
 adverse consequences of such interventions;
 Identifies the impact of pain on the resident's function and quality of life;

 Identifies the resident's response to interventions including efficacy and adverse
 consequences, and any modification of interventions as indicated; and

 Identifies if the resident triggers the CAA for pain.

NOTE: Although Federal requirements dictate the completion of RAI assessments
 according to certain time frames, standards of good clinical practice dictate that
 the assessment process is more fluid and should be ongoing. (Federal Register,
 Vol. 62, No. 246, 12/23/97, Page 67193)

Care Plan. Review the care plan. Determine if pain management interventions include as
appropriate:

 Measurable pain management goals, reflecting resident needs and preferences;

 Pertinent non-pharmacological and/or pharmacological interventions;

 Time frames and approaches for monitoring the status of the resident's pain, including
 the effectiveness of the interventions; and

 Identification of clinically significant medication-related adverse consequences such as
 falling, constipation, anorexia, or drowsiness, and a plan to try to minimize those adverse
 consequences.

If the care plan refers to a specific facility pain management protocol, determine whether
interventions are consistent with that protocol. If a resident's care plan deviates from the
protocol, determine through staff interview or record review the reason for the deviation.

If the resident has elected a hospice benefit, all providers must coordinate their care of the
resident. This care includes aspects of pain management, such as choice of palliative
interventions, responsibility for assessing pain and providing interventions, and responsibility for
monitoring symptoms and adverse consequences of interventions and for modifying interventions
as needed.

NOTE: If a resident is receiving services from a Medicare certified hospice and the
 hospice was advised of concerns by the facility and failed to address and/or
 resolve issues related to coordination of care or implementation of appropriate
 services, file a complaint with the State Agency responsible for oversight of this
 hospice, identifying the specific resident(s) involved and the concerns identified.

Care Plan Revisions
 Determine whether the pain has been reassessed and the care plan has been revised as necessary
(with input from the resident or representative, to the extent possible). For example, if the
current interventions are not effective, if the pain has resolved, or the resident has experienced a
change of condition or status.

5. Interviews with health care practitioners and professionals:

 Nurse Interview. Interview a nurse who is knowledgeable about the needs and care of the
 resident to determine:

 How and when staff try to identify whether a resident is experiencing pain and/or
 circumstances in which pain can be anticipated;

 How the resident is assessed for pain;

 How the interventions for pain management have been developed and the basis for
 selecting them;

 If the resident receives pain medication (including PRN and adjuvant medications), how,
 when, and by whom the results of medications are evaluated (including the dose,
 frequency of PRN use, schedule of routine medications, and effectiveness);

 How staff monitor for the emergence or presence of adverse consequences of
 interventions;

 What is done if pain persists or recurs despite treatment, and the basis for decisions to
 maintain or modify approaches;

 How staff communicate with the prescriber/practitioner about the resident's pain status,
 current measures to manage pain, and the possible need to modify the current pain
 management interventions; and

 For a resident who is receiving care under a hospice benefit, how the hospice and the
 facility coordinate their approaches and communicate about the resident's needs and
 monitor the outcomes (both effectiveness and adverse consequences).

 Interviews with Other Health Care Professionals. If the interventions or care provided do
 not appear to be consistent with current standards of practice and/or the resident's pain
 appears to persist or recur, interview one or more health care professionals as necessary (e.g.,
 attending physician, medical director, consultant pharmacist, director of nursing or hospice
 nurse) who, by virtue of training and knowledge of the resident, should be able to provide
 information about the evaluation and management of the resident's pain/symptoms.
 Depending on the issue, ask about:

 How chosen interventions were determined to be appropriate;
 How they guide and oversee the selection of pain management interventions;

 The rationale for not intervening, if pain was identified and no intervention was selected
 and implemented;

 Changes in pain characteristics that may warrant review or revision of interventions; or

 When and with whom the professional discussed the effectiveness, ineffectiveness and
 possible adverse consequences of pain management interventions.

 If during the course of this review, the surveyor needs to contact the attending physician
 regarding questions related to the treatment regimen, it is recommended that the facility's
 staff have the opportunity to provide the necessary information about the resident and the
 concerns to the physician for his/her review prior to responding to the surveyor's inquiries. If
 the attending physician is unavailable, interview the medical director as appropriate.

DETERMINATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH F309 FOR PAIN MANAGEMENT
(Task 6, Appendix P )

Synopsis of Regulation (Tag F309)

The resident must receive and the facility must provide the necessary care and services to attain
or maintain his/her highest practicable level of physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in
accordance with the comprehensive assessment and plan of care.

Criteria for Compliance with F309 for a Resident with Pain or the Potential for Pain

For a resident with pain or the potential for pain (such as pain related to treatments), the facility
is in compliance with F309 Quality of Care as it relates to the recognition and management of
pain, if each resident has received and the facility has provided the necessary care and services to
attain or maintain the highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in
accordance with the comprehensive assessment and plan of care i.e., the facility:

 Recognized and evaluated the resident who experienced pain to determine (to the extent
 possible) causes and characteristics of the pain, as well as factors influencing the pain;

 Developed and implemented interventions for pain management for a resident
 experiencing pain, consistent with the resident's goals, risks, and current standards of
 practice; or has provided a clinically pertinent rationale why they did not do so;

 Recognized and provided measures to minimize or prevent pain for situations where pain
 could be anticipated;
 Monitored the effects of interventions and modified the approaches as indicated; and

 Communicated with the health care practitioner when a resident was having pain that was
 not adequately managed or was having a suspected or confirmed adverse consequence
 related to the treatment.

If not, cite at F309.

Noncompliance with F309 for a Resident with Pain or the Potential for Pain

After completing the Investigative Protocol, analyze the data in order to determine whether or not
noncompliance with the regulation exists. Noncompliance for F309, with regard to pain
management, may include, for example, failure to:

 Recognize and evaluate the resident who is experiencing pain in enough detail to permit
 pertinent individualized pain management;

 Provide interventions for pain management in situations where pain can be anticipated;

 Develop interventions for a resident who is experiencing pain (either specific to an
 overall pain management goal or as part of another aspect of the care plan);

 Implement interventions to address pain to the greatest extent possible consistent with the
 resident's goals and current standards of practice and have not provided a clinically
 pertinent rationale why this was not done;

 Monitor the effectiveness of intervention to manage pain; or

 Coordinate pain management as needed with an involved hospice to meet the resident's
 needs.

Concerns with Independent but Associated Structure, Process, and/or Outcome
Requirements for a Resident with Pain or the Potential for Pain

During the investigation of care and services provided regarding pain management, the surveyor
may have identified concerns with related structure, process, and/or outcome requirements. If an
additional concern has been identified, the surveyor must investigate the identified concern. Do
not cite any related or associated requirements before first conducting an investigation to
determine compliance or non-compliance with the related or associated requirement. Some
examples include, but are not limited to, the following:

 42 CFR 483.10(b)(4) F155, The Right to Refuse Treatment

 If a resident has refused treatment or services, determine whether the facility has assessed
 the reason for this resident's refusal, clarified and educated the resident as to the
 consequences of refusal, offered alternative treatments, and continued to provide all other
 services.

 42 CFR 483.10(b)(11), F157, Notification of Changes

 Determine if staff notified:

 - The physician when pain persisted or recurred despite treatment or when they
 suspected or identified adverse consequences related to treatments for pain; and

 - The resident's representative (if known) of significant changes in the resident's
 condition in relation to pain management and/or the plan of care for pain.

 42 CFR 483.15(b), F242, Self-determination and Participation.

 Determine if the facility has provided the resident with relevant choices about aspects of
 pain management.

 42 CFR 483.15(e)(1), F246, Accommodation of Needs

 Determine whether the facility has adapted the resident's physical environment (room,
 bathroom, furniture) to reasonably accommodate the resident's individual needs, related
 to pain management.

 42 CFR 483.20, F272, Comprehensive Assessments

 Determine if the facility comprehensively assessed the resident's physical, mental, and
 psychosocial needs to identify characteristics and determine underlying causes (to the
 extent possible) of the resident's pain and the impact of the pain upon the resident's
 function, mood, and cognition.

 42 CFR 483.20(g) F278, Accuracy of Assessments

 Determine whether the assessment accurately reflects the resident's status.

 42 CFR 483.20(k), F279, Comprehensive Care Plans

 Determine if the facility's comprehensive care plan for the resident included measurable
 objectives, time frames, and specific interventions/services to meet the resident's pain
 management needs, consistent with the resident's specific conditions, risks, needs, goals,
 and preferences and current standards of practice.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)(2)(iii), 483.10(d)(3), F280, Comprehensive Care Plan Revision

 Determine if the care plan was periodically reviewed and revised by a team of qualified
 persons with input from the resident or representative to try to reduce pain or discomfort.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)(3)(i), F281, Services provided meet professional standards of quality

 Determine if care was provided in accordance with accepted professional standards of
 quality for pain management.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)(3)(ii), F282, Care provided by qualified persons in accordance with the
 plan of care

 Determine whether care is being provided by qualified staff, and/or whether the care plan
 is adequately and/or correctly implemented.

 42 CFR 483.25(l), F329, Unnecessary Drugs

 Determine whether medications ordered to treat pain are being monitored for
 effectiveness and for adverse consequences, including whether any symptoms could be
 related to the medications.

 42 CFR 483.40(a), F385, Physician Supervision

 Determine if pain management is being supervised by a physician, including participation
 in the comprehensive assessment process, development of a treatment regimen consistent
 with current standards of practice, monitoring, and response to notification of change in
 the resident's medical status related to pain.

 42 CFR 483.60, F425, Pharmacy Services

 Determine if the medications required to manage a resident's pain were available and
 administered as indicated and ordered at admission and throughout the stay.

 42 CFR 483.75(i)(2), F501, Medical Director

 Determine whether the medical director helped the facility develop and implement
 policies and procedures related to preventing, identifying and managing pain, consistent
 with current standards of practice; and whether the medical director interacted with the
 physician supervising the care of the resident if requested by the facility to intervene on
 behalf of a resident with pain or one who may have been experiencing adverse
 consequences related to interventions to treat pain.

 42 CRF 483.75(l) F514, Clinical Records

 Determine whether the clinical record:
 - Accurately and completely documents the resident's status, the care and services
 provided, (e.g., to prevent to the extent possible, or manage the resident's pain) in
 accordance with current professional standards and practices and the resident's
 goals; and

 - Provide a basis for determining and managing the resident's progress including
 response to treatment, change in condition, and changes in treatment.

DEFICIENCY CATEGORIZATION (Part IV, Appendix P)

Once the team has completed its investigation, analyzed the data, reviewed the regulatory
requirements, and identified any deficient practice(s) that demonstrate that noncompliance with
the regulation at F309 exists, the team must determine the severity of each deficiency, based on
the resultant harm or potential for harm to the resident. (Note: some of the examples here
involving residents with dementia who receive an antipsychotic medication may also be cited at
F329. Surveyors should evaluate compliance at each tag separately).

Severity Level 4 Considerations: Immediate Jeopardy to Resident Health or Safety

Immediate Jeopardy is a situation in which the facility's noncompliance with one or more
requirements of participation:

 Has allowed, caused, or resulted in, or is likely to allow, cause, or result in serious injury,
 harm, impairment, or death to a resident; and

 Requires immediate correction, as the facility either created the situation or allowed the
 situation to continue by failing to implement preventative or corrective measures.

NOTE: If immediate jeopardy has been ruled out based upon the evidence, then evaluate
 whether actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy exists at Severity Level 3.

Severity Level 3 Considerations: Actual Harm that is Not Immediate Jeopardy
Level 3 indicates noncompliance that resulted in actual harm, and may include, but is not limited
to, clinical compromise, decline, or the resident's inability to maintain and/or reach his/her
highest practicable well-being.

NOTE: If Severity Level 3 (actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy) has been ruled
out based upon the evidence, then evaluate as to whether Severity Level 2 (no actual harm
with the potential for more than minimal harm) exists.

Severity Level 2 Considerations: No Actual Harm with Potential for More Than Minimal
Harm that is Not Immediate Jeopardy

Level 2 indicates noncompliance that results in a resident outcome of no more than minimal
discomfort and/or has the potential to compromise the resident's ability to maintain or reach his
 or her highest practicable level of well-being. The potential exists for greater harm to occur if
interventions are not provided.

The following examples illustrate the differences among compliance and non-compliance at
levels 4, 3 and 2 for F309 Review of a Resident with Dementia. This is only one example;
surveyors must investigate each case as the specific situation will vary and may lead to different
conclusions based on the evidence.

F309 Review of a Resident with Dementia Compliance Example

A resident with dementia was admitted after hospitalization for a hip fracture she sustained
while showering at home. The social worker's note, the nurses' notes and the care plan all
included information from the family: they had reported on admission that the resident was now
very fearful of showers. The RAI indicated choosing the method she was bathed was very
important and the resident's daughter stated she preferred sponge baths due to her fear of
showers. The interventions in the care plan were implemented consistently across all shifts and
levels of staff. The nurses and social workers documented ongoing discussions with family and
reassessments to ensure the resident's needs were being met and that no new issues had been
identified. The criteria for compliance were met.

F309 Review of a Resident with Dementia - Level 4 Severity Non-compliance Example

A resident with dementia was admitted after hospitalization for a hip fracture she sustained
while showering at home. The social worker's note, the nurses' notes and the care plan all
included information from the family: they had reported on admission that the resident was now
very fearful of showers. The RAI indicated choosing the method the resident was bathed was
 very important and her daughter stated she preferred sponge baths due to her fear of showers.

In addition to the basic facts noted above in the level 4 severity non-compliance example:

 The surveyor observed an occurrence of bathing for the resident described above during
 the survey. The resident displayed substantial distress and fearfulness, calling out help
 me, crying, striking out and grabbing at the staff, and made repeated attempts to get out
 of the shower chair.

 The staff member present called for a second staff member to help her complete the
 shower. Despite the resident's cries for help, no other staff members intervened or
 attempted to determine whether or not her distress warranted a different approach to the
 bathing routine/schedule.

 Significant psychological distress was noted during the bathing and for the remainder of
 the day and was documented in the nurse's notes.

 The surveyor observed that no other staff members intervened to assess the resident's
 situation or consult the care plan during or after the bathing.
 The surveyor interviewed direct care staff and nurses on the unit. One licensed nurse
 stated, That resident always yells out during her shower and attributed this to her
 dementia. Neither CNA interviewed was aware that the resident had sustained a hip
 fracture during a shower prior to admission.

 The resident's fear of bathing was noted in the care plan; however during
 interviews/observations, direct care staff could not articulate this information about the
 resident.

 The staff admitted they had not considered alternative routines/approaches for bathing
 this resident, despite the fact that the family had reported the resident's fear of showers
 and despite repeated episodes of distress.

 In addition to the staff being unaware of the resident's fear of showers, they also failed to
 investigate for other causes of the behavior.

 Upon further investigation related to quality assurance, there was no evidence that a
 physician attends QA&A meetings regularly.

 In reviewing staff training records, it appears that nursing assistants have not received
 training on how to care for residents with dementia.

What is the evidence for non-compliance?
 Resident exhibits adverse reaction to showers with verbal distress, combative behavior,
 and continuous struggling to get out of the chair.
 Facility failed to consider and rule out possible causes such as pain related to hip
 fracture while sitting in a shower chair or possible discomfort with the approach being
 used to bathe. Facility also failed to recognize the risk of a fall or injury due to combative
 behavior that required two staff members.
 Facility failed to develop and attempt alternate interventions.
 No staff member intervened despite the staff member present calling for help and hearing
 resident's cries for help and her obvious distress.
 Facility failed to develop a care plan intervention related to trying to reduce or eliminate
 extreme reactions to showers;
 Staff had appropriate care plan but failed to communicate across shifts and caregivers;
 and/or
 Facility failed to assess the effects of the interventions and try to modify interventions
 based on those assessments.

Why is this Immediate Jeopardy?

See Decision-Making Grid with Components of Immediate Jeopardy below. Based on the
severity of the resident's reaction, there was evidence that the resident experienced actual
psychological harm. In addition, there was immediacy since the repeated attempts at showering
 the resident resulted in resident-to-staff altercations and placed her at risk for serious physical
harm.

Furthermore, there was no evidence of physician participation in the QA&A committee and no
evidence that nurse aides received required training in caring for and communicating with
residents with dementia. This suggests a lack of effective systems and processes for the
assessment and treatment of a resident with dementia. If so, these systems failures place this and
potentially other residents with dementia at risk for serious harm. The facility is culpable for a
deficient practice that must be addressed immediately in order to prevent further harm to this
and other residents (surveyors may wish to consider whether or not there is a need to expand the
sample).
 Components of Immediate Jeopardy

Harm

a. Actual - Was there an outcome of harm? Yes. Repeated, extreme reaction to attempts to

Does the harm meet the definition of bathe with visible anguish, crying and yelling

Immediate Jeopardy, e.g., has the provider's out reflects actual psychological harm with no

noncompliance caused serious injury, harm, attempts to alter the care plan.

impairment, or death to an individual?

b. Potential Is there a likelihood of potential Yes. Repeated risk of a serious fall on an

harm? Does the potential harm meet the already injured or vulnerable area due to the

definition of Immediate Jeopardy; e.g., is the struggle related to attempted showering.

provider's noncompliance likely to cause

serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to

an individual?

Immediacy

Is the harm or potential harm likely to occur in Yes. Potential for subsequent harm (a fall or

the very near future to this individual or others other injury, psychological harm) exists as the

in the entity, if immediate action is not taken? facility did not attempt to identify causes or

 modify alternate interventions related to

 showers. Other residents with dementia may

 also be at risk, as staff had not received

 training in caring for individuals with

 dementia including how to understand the

 communication effforts of residents with

 dementia. There was no evidence of physician

 participation with the QA&A committee.

Culpability

Did the facility know about the situation? If so Yes, it had happened repeatedly and the social

when did the facility first become aware? worker and nurses had been informed on

 admission of the resident's fear and

 preferences. While the information was in the

 care plan, the team had not passed the

 information along to the direct care staff and

 staff did not review the care plan. Staff did not

 intervene during these episodes despite the

 resident's cries for help. These behaviors were

 attributed to her dementia and were not

 considered remediable.

Should the facility have known about the Yes. There were recurrent episodes and the

situation? family had reported similar behavior at home

 related to showers.

F309 Review of a Resident with Dementia - Level 3 Severity Non-compliance Example
A resident with dementia was admitted after hospitalization for a hip fracture she sustained
while showering at home. The social services note, the nurses' notes and the care plan all
 included information from the family: they had reported on admission that the resident was now
very fearful of showers. The RAI indicated choosing the method she was bathed was very
important and her daughter stated she preferred sponge baths due to her fear of showers.

In addition to the basic facts noted above in the level 3 severity non-compliance example:

 The information about the resident's fear of bathing was in the care plan; however
 during interviews/observations, direct care staff could not articulate this information.

 The surveyor determined that the resident was taken to the shower room three times in
 the three weeks since admission. Staff interviews revealed that each time the staff
 attempted to provide her with a shower, the resident immediately started to call out,
 help me, help me. With each of the three attempts, the shower was stopped, the staff
 member documented shower was refused and the resident was given a sponge bath
 instead. On those days, the resident was noted to be anxious and fretful, wringing her
 hands and crying on and off for the rest of the day. These behaviors are not noted on
 other days.

 No further investigation occurred after each incident. Neither the physician nor the
 family was involved in discussions regarding the resident's response to the shower and
 no change in the plan of care was evident after the attempts to shower the resident.

Why is this Level 3 Severity?

There is evidence of actual psychosocial harm to this resident, with no attempts by the facility to
identify the underlying cause of her expressions of distress. However this case does not meet the
criteria for immediacy, since the staff did not attempt to actually place the resident into the
shower once she started to resist. While staff failed to rule out underlying causes of the
resident's behavior, they did provide an alternative when the resident resisted.

F309 Review of a Resident with Dementia - Level 2 Severity Non-compliance Example
A resident with dementia was admitted after hospitalization for a hip fracture she sustained
while showering at home. It was documented in the social service and nurses' notes that the
family had reported on admission that the resident was now very fearful of showers and
preferred sponge baths. However, this information was not communicated to other staff nor was
it incorporated into the care plan. The care plan stated that the resident would receive weekly
showers.

In addition to the basic facts noted above in the level 2 severity example:

 The resident's daughter insisted on bathing her mother herself for a period of time after
 admission, and provided sponge baths to the resident several times a week. The staff did
 not attempt to provide showers to the resident for several weeks after admission.
 At the next care plan meeting, the daughter discovered that her mother's care plan
 included provide weekly showers, and was upset that the information about her
 mother's fear of showers had not been identified and addressed in the care plan.

Why is this Level 2 Severity?

There is potential for more than minimal harm since significant psychological distress was
reported by the family to occur consistently with attempts to shower the resident. In addition, the
potential for serious physical harm exists if showers are attempted and the resident resists by
trying to get up out of the shower chair or becoming combative with staff. This is Level 2
because actual harm did not occur.

 References
 1. http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/dementias/dementia.htm

 2. Gitlin LN, Kales HC, Lyketsos CG. Nonpharmacologic Management of
 Behavioral Symptoms in Dementia. JAMA 202; 308(9): 2020-2029.

 3. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV-TR Fourth
 edition. 2000 American Psychiatric Association.

 4. Wei, L. A., Fearing, M. A., Sternberg, E. J., & Inouye, S. K. (2008). The Confusion
 Assessment Method: A Systematic Review of Current Usage. Journal of the American
 Geriatrics Society, 56(5), 823-830.

 5. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22879644

 6. http://ageing.oxfordjournals.org/content/28/6/55.abstract

 7. Briesacher BA, Limcangco MR, Simoni-Wastila L et al: The quality of antipsychotic
 drug prescribing in nursing homes. Arch Intern Med 2005; 65(June):280-285.

 8. Levinson DR. Medicare Atypical Antipsychotic Drug Claims for Elderly Nursing Home
 Residents. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General Report
 (OEI-07-08-0050)05-04-20 accessed at https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-08-
 0050.pdf

 9. Schneider L, Tariot P, Dagerman K. Effectiveness of atypical antipsychotic drugs in
 residents with Alzheimer's disease. N Engl J Med 2006; 355:525-538.

 10. Ray WA, Chung CP, Murray KT, et al: Atypical antipsychotic drugs and the risk of
 sudden cardiac death. N Engl J Med 2009; 360:225 235.
 11. Schneider LS, Dagerman K, Insel PS: Efficacy and adverse effects of atypical
 antipsychotics for dementia: meta-analysis of randomized, placebo-controlled trials.
 American Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry 2006 4:9-20.
 12. Rochon P, Normand S, Gomes T et al. Antipsychotic therapy and short-term serious
 events in older adults with dementia. Arch Intern Med 2008; 68:090-096.

 13. Huybrechts KF, Gerhard T, Crystal S, Olfson M, Avorn J, Levin R, Lucas JA,
 Schneeweiss S. Differential risk of death in older residents in nursing homes prescribed
 specific antipsychotic drugs: population based cohort study. BMJ. 202 Feb 23;
 344:e977. doi: 0.36/bmj.e977

 14. Jin, H, Shih BP, Golshan, S, Mudaliar, S, Henry, R, Glorioso, DK, Arndt, S, Kraemer,
 HC, Jeste, DV. Comparison of Longer-Term Safety and Effectiveness of 4 Atypical
 Antipsychotics in Patients over age 40: A trial Using Equipoise-Stratified
 Randomization. J Clin Psychiatry, 202; November 27th 202. doi:0.4088/JCP.2m0800.

 15.
 http://www.americangeriatrics.org/files/documents/beers/202BeersCriteria_JAGS.pdf

 16. http://www.amda.com/tools/guidelines.cfm

 17. http://www.cccdtd.ca/pdfs/Final_Recommendations_CCCDTD_2007.pdf

 18. http://www.nice.org.uk/nicemedia/live/0998/3038/3038.pdf

 19. http://www.sign.ac.uk/pdf/sign86.pdf

Additional Resources

NOTE: References to non-CMS sources or sites on the internet are provided as a service and do
not constitute or imply endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CMS or the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services. CMS is not responsible for the content of pages
found at these sites. URL addresses were current as of the date of this publication.

Some clinical resources that identify the challenges and basic principles of dementia care
include, but are not limited to:

 Advancing Excellence in America's Nursing Homes. http://www.nhqualitycampaign.org

 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders DSM IV-TR Fourth edition. 2000
 American Psychiatric Association.

 Gitlin LN, Kales HC, Lyketsos CG. Nonpharmacologic Management of Behavioral
 Symptoms in Dementia. JAMA 202; 308(9): 2020-2029.
 Hand in Hand. For information, to download the training modules or inquire about
 receiving a copy or replacement copies of the Hand in Hand Toolkit please visit

 http://www.cms-handinhandtoolkit.info/Index.aspx

 Lyketsos, C., Lipsey, J., Rabins, P., and Slavney, P. Psychiatric Aspects of Neurological
 Diseases. New York: Oxford University Press, 2008. Print

 NINDS.NIH.gov. National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS),
 Dementia Information Page, n.d. Web. 29 AUG 202.
 http://www.ninds.nih.gov/disorders/dementias/dementia.htm

 Power, G. Allen. Dementia Beyond Drugs. Baltimore, Maryland: Health Professions
 Press. 200.

 Rabins, P. The 36-Hour Day. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2008. Print

 Excerpt adapted from: Gitlin LN, Kales HC, Lyketsos CG. Nonpharmacologic
 Management of Behavioral Symptoms in Dementia. JAMA, November 2, 202; 308(9):
 2020-2029. © 202 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
 Excerpt adapted from: Gitlin LN, Kales HC, Lyketsos CG. Nonpharmacologic Management of
Behavioral Symptoms in Dementia. JAMA, November 2, 202; 308(9): 2020-2029. © 202
American Medical Association. All rights reserved.
 List of Boxes
Box Key Considerations Caregivers Need to Know to Help Prevent Behavioral
Symptoms
Box 2 Informal Assessment: Brief Questions to Guide Describing Behavioral
Symptoms
Box 3 Checklist of Factors to Consider to Identify Potential Causes of Behavioral
Symptoms

Box Key Considerations Caregivers Need to Know to Help Prevent Behavioral
Symptoms

 Effectively communicate:

 Use calm voice
 Offer no more than two choices
 Do not use open-ended questions
 Keep it simple do not over explain or discuss events happening in

 the future

 Attend to resident's nonverbal communications:

 Grimacing may be a sign of pain
 Ringing hands may be a sign of anxiety, feelings of insecurity

 Relax the rules - there is no right or wrong way to perform an activity if

 resident is safe

 Establish a structured daily routine for resident that is predictable
 Keep resident engaged in activities of interest and that match capabilities
 Use cueing strategies (e.g., touch, verbal directions) to help people with

 executive dysfunction initiate, sequence, and execute daily activities
 Understand behaviors are not intentional or done in spite but are a

 consequence of erosion in person's ability to initiate or comprehend steps of a
 task or its purpose

 Inform physician immediately of changes in behavior as they occur (e.g.,

 sleep disruptions, withdrawal, increased confusion)

 Take care of self as a caregiver/team member:

 Exercise regularly

 Involve other staff and family/representative in care
 responsibilities as appropriate

 Discuss stressful situations with colleagues and supervisors and
 brainstorm about potential solutions

 Use stress reduction techniques (see Hand in Hand, CMS video
 series available in nursing home, or other resources for suggestions)

Box 2 - Informal Assessment: Brief Questions to Guide Describing Behavioral

Symptoms

 What is the behavior? Can you describe the behavior?

 What did he/she do?

 What did he/she say?

 What did you do and say?

 Why is this behavior a problem? What about it really gets to you or makes you

 upset?

 When does the behavior occur?

 What time of day?

 What day(s) of the week?

 How often did the behavior happen in the past week? Past month?
 Where does the behavior occur?
 Is there a particular room/setting within the facility where the behavior
 occurs (e.g., during activities, in dining room, in person's own room with
 daily care routines)?

 Can you recognize any patterns?

 Does the behavior happen at the same time every day?

 What happens right before the behavior occurs?
 Who is around when the behavior occurs and how do they react?
 What is the environment like where the behavior occurs?

 Is there a lot of stimulation (television, noise, people)?

 How would you like this behavior to change? When would you consider the

 problem solved ?

Note: Adapted from randomized trials and the NIH Resources for Enhancing
Alzheimer's Caregiver Health (REACH I and II).

Box 3 Checklist of Factors to Consider to Identify Potential Causes of Behavioral
Symptoms
1. Resident-based Factors

 Altered emotional status (feelings of insecurity, sadness, anxiety, or loneliness)
 Lack of daily routines
 Sensory deficits (hearing, sight)
 Basic physical needs (hydration, constipation, body temperature)
 Interests and preferences not being met
 Level of stimulation (under or over) not appropriate
 Health issues (underlying infection)
 Impact of other illness or conditions
 Pain
 Medications (changes in, dosage, polypharmacy, failure to take, inappropriate

 medication administration)

 Ambulation and/or difficulty finding one's way (getting lost)
 Challenges performing daily activities of living (bathing, dressing, using the

 toilet, grooming, eating)

 Sleep cycle disruptions

2. Caregiver-based Factors

 Communications too complex
 Emotional tone is harsh
 High level of distress
 Lack of availability (staffing issues)
 Poor health status
 Expectations are too high or too low
 Cultural expectations and care values and beliefs that are not good fit with

 dementia care needs

 Style of caregiving not good fit
 Poor relationship with resident
 Lack of education about disease and behaviors
 Lack of supportive network or system within facility for dementia care
 Limited opportunities for respite
 Strained financial situation influencing work performance
 Employment and other family care responsibilities

3. Environmental-based factors
 Level of physical and/or social stimulation (too much or too little)

 Room arrangements

 Amount of clutter

 Needed items are out-of-sight or not in where person can see them

 Lack of appropriate visual cues

 Safety risk

 Too hot or too cold

 Lack of needed adaptive equipment (grab bars in bathroom)

 Poor lighting

Excerpt adapted from: Gitlin LN, Kales HC, Lyketsos CG. Nonpharmacologic
Management of Behavioral Symptoms in Dementia. JAMA, November 2, 202; 308(9):
2020-2029. © 202 American Medical Association. All rights reserved.

F329

(Rev. 130; Issued: 12-12-14, Effective: 12-12-14, Implementation: 12-12-14)

§483.25(l) Unnecessary Drugs

1. General. Each resident's drug regimen must be free from unnecessary drugs.
An unnecessary drug is any drug when used:

 (i) In excessive dose (including duplicate therapy); or
 (ii) For excessive duration; or
 (iii) Without adequate monitoring; or
 (iv) Without adequate indications for its use; or
 (v) In the presence of adverse consequences which indicate the dose should be

 reduced or discontinued; or
 (vi) Any combinations of the reasons above.
 2. Antipsychotic Drugs. Based on a comprehensive assessment of a resident, the
facility must ensure that:

(i) Residents who have not used antipsychotic drugs are not given these drugs
 unless antipsychotic drug therapy is necessary to treat a specific condition as
 diagnosed and documented in the clinical record; and

(ii) Residents who use antipsychotic drugs receive gradual dose reductions, and
 behavioral interventions, unless clinically contraindicated, in an effort to
 discontinue these drugs.

INTENT: §483.25(l) Unnecessary drugs

The intent of this requirement is that each resident's entire drug/medication regimen be
managed and monitored to achieve the following goals:

 The medication regimen helps promote or maintain the resident's highest
 practicable mental, physical, and psychosocial well-being, as identified by the
 resident and/or representative(s) in collaboration with the attending physician and
 facility staff;

 Each resident receives only those medications, in doses and for the duration
 clinically indicated to treat the resident's assessed condition(s);

 Non-pharmacological interventions (such as behavioral interventions) are
 considered and used when indicated, instead of, or in addition to, medication;

 Clinically significant adverse consequences are minimized; and

 The potential contribution of the medication regimen to an unanticipated decline
 or newly emerging or worsening symptom is recognized and evaluated, and the
 regimen is modified when appropriate.

NOTE: This guidance applies to all categories of medications including
 antipsychotic medications.

 Although the regulatory language refers to drugs, the guidance in this
 document generally will refer to medications, except in those situations
 where the term drug has become part of an established pharmaceutical term
 (e.g., adverse drug event, and adverse drug reaction or consequence).

 For purposes of this guidance, references to the pharmacist mean the
 facility's licensed pharmacist, whether employed directly by the facility or
 through arrangement.
 The surveyor's review of medication use is not intended to constitute the practice
 of medicine. However, surveyors are expected to investigate the basis for
 decisions and interventions affecting residents.

DEFINITIONS

Definitions are provided to clarify terminology related to medications and to the
evaluation and treatment of residents.

 Adverse consequence is an unpleasant symptom or event that is due to or
 associated with a medication, such as impairment or decline in an individual's
 mental or physical condition or functional or psychosocial status. It may include
 various types of adverse drug reactions and interactions (e.g., medication-
 medication, medication-food, and medication-disease).

NOTE: Adverse drug reaction (ADR) is a form of adverse consequences. It
 may be either a secondary effect of a medication that is usually
 undesirable and different from the therapeutic effect of the medication
 or any response to a medication that is noxious and unintended and
 occurs in doses for prophylaxis, diagnosis, or treatment. The term
 side effect is often used interchangeably with ADR; however, side
 effects are but one of five ADR categories, the others being
 hypersensitivity, idiosyncratic response, toxic reactions, and adverse
 medication interactions. A side effect is an expected, well-known
 reaction that occurs with a predictable frequency and may or may not
 constitute an adverse consequence.

 Anticholinergic side effect is an effect of a medication that opposes or inhibits
 the activity of the parasympathetic (cholinergic) nervous system to the point of
 causing symptoms such as dry mouth, blurred vision, tachycardia, urinary
 retention, constipation, confusion, delirium, or hallucinations.

 Behavioral interventions are individualized non-pharmacological approaches
 (including direct care and activities) that are provided as part of a supportive
 physical and psychosocial environment, and are directed toward preventing,
 relieving, and/or accommodating a resident's distressed behavior.

 Clinically significant refers to effects, results, or consequences that materially
 affect or are likely to affect an individual's mental, physical, or psychosocial well-
 being either positively by preventing, stabilizing, or improving a condition or
 reducing a risk, or negatively by exacerbating, causing, or contributing to a
 symptom, illness, or decline in status.

 Distressed behavior is behavior that reflects individual discomfort or emotional
 strain. It may present as crying, apathetic or withdrawn behavior, or as verbal or
 physical actions such as: pacing, cursing, hitting, kicking, pushing, scratching,
 tearing things, or grabbing others.

 Dose is the total amount/strength/concentration of a medication given at one
 time or over a period of time. The individual dose is the
 amount/strength/concentration received at each administration. The amount
 received over a 24-hour period may be referred to as the daily dose.

 o Excessive dose means the total amount of any medication (including
 duplicate therapy) given at one time or over a period of time that is greater
 than the amount recommended by the manufacturer's label, package insert,
 current standards of practice for a resident's age and condition, or clinical
 studies or evidence-based review articles that are published in medical
 and/or pharmacy journals and that lacks evidence of:

 A review for the continued necessity of the dose;

 Attempts at, or consideration of the possibility of, tapering a
 medication; and

 A documented clinical rationale for the benefit of, or necessity for,
 the dose or for the use of multiple medications from the same
 pharmacological class.

 Duplicate therapy refers to multiple medications of the same pharmacological
 class/category or any medication therapy that substantially duplicates a particular
 effect of another medication that the individual is taking.

 Duration is the total length of time the medication is being received.

 o Excessive Duration means the medication is administered beyond the
 manufacturer's recommended time frames or facility-established stop
 order policies, beyond the length of time advised by current standards of
 practice, clinical practice guidelines, clinical studies or evidence-based
 review articles, and/or without either evidence of additional therapeutic
 benefit for the resident or clinical evidence that would warrant the
 continued use of the medication.

 Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) are neurological side effects that can occur at
 any time from the first few days of treatment to years later. EPS includes various
 syndromes such as:

 o Akathisia, which refers to a distressing feeling of internal restlessness that
 may appear as constant motion, the inability to sit still, fidgeting, pacing,
 or rocking.
 o Medication-induced Parkinsonism, which refers to a syndrome of
 Parkinson-like symptoms including tremors, shuffling gait, slowness of
 movement, expressionless face, drooling, postural unsteadiness and
 rigidity of muscles in the limbs, neck and trunk.

 o Dystonia, which refers to an acute, painful, spastic contraction of muscle
 groups (commonly the neck, eyes and trunk) that often occurs soon after
 initiating treatment and is more common in younger individuals.

 Gradual Dose Reduction (GDR) is the stepwise tapering of a dose to determine
 if symptoms, conditions, or risks can be managed by a lower dose or if the dose or
 medication can be discontinued.

 Indications for use is the identified, documented clinical rationale for
 administering a medication that is based upon an assessment of the resident's
 condition and therapeutic goals and is consistent with manufacturer's
 recommendations and/or clinical practice guidelines, clinical standards of
 practice, medication references, clinical studies or evidence-based review articles
 that are published in medical and/or pharmacy journals.

 Insomnia is the inability to sleep characterized by difficulty falling asleep,
 difficulty staying asleep, early waking, or non-restorative sleep, which may result
 in impaired physical, social, or cognitive function.

 Medication Interaction is the impact of another substance (such as another
 medication, nutritional supplement including herbal products, food, or substances
 used in diagnostic studies) upon a medication. The interactions may alter
 absorption, distribution, metabolism, or elimination. These interactions may
 decrease the effectiveness of the medication or increase the potential for adverse
 consequences.

 Medication Regimen Review (MRR) is a thorough evaluation of the medication
 regimen by a pharmacist, with the goal of promoting positive outcomes and
 minimizing adverse consequences associated with medication. The review
 includes preventing, identifying, reporting, and resolving medication-related
 problems, medication errors, or other irregularities in collaboration with other
 members of the interdisciplinary team.1

 Monitoring is the ongoing collection and analysis of information (such as
 observations and diagnostic test results) and comparison to baseline data in order
 to:

 o Ascertain the individual's response to treatment and care, including
 progress or lack of progress toward a therapeutic goal;
 o Detect any complications or adverse consequences of the condition or of
 the treatments; and

 o Support decisions about modifying, discontinuing, or continuing any
 interventions.

 Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) is a syndrome related to the use of
 medications, mainly antipsychotics, that typically presents with a sudden onset of
 diffuse muscle rigidity, high fever, labile blood pressure, tremor, and notable
 cognitive dysfunction. It is potentially fatal if not treated immediately, including
 stopping the offending medications.

 Non-pharmacological interventions refers to approaches to care that do not
 involve medications, generally directed towards stabilizing or improving a
 resident's mental, physical or psychosocial well-being.

 Psychopharmacological medication is any medication used for managing
 behavior, stabilizing mood, or treating psychiatric disorders.

 Serotonin Syndrome is a potentially serious clinical condition resulting from
 overstimulation of serotonin receptors. It is commonly related to the use of
 multiple serotonin-stimulating medications (e.g., SSRIs, SNRIs, triptans, certain
 antibiotics). Symptoms may include restlessness, hallucinations, confusion, loss
 of coordination, fast heart beat, rapid changes in blood pressure, increased body
 temperature, overactive reflexes, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.

 Tardive dyskinesia refers to abnormal, recurrent, involuntary movements that
 may be irreversible and typically present as lateral movements of the tongue or
 jaw, tongue thrusting, chewing, frequent blinking, brow arching, grimacing, and
 lip smacking, although the trunk or other parts of the body may also be affected.

OVERVIEW

Medications are an integral part of the care provided to residents of nursing facilities.
They are administered to try to achieve various outcomes, such as curing an illness,
diagnosing a disease or condition, arresting or slowing a disease process, reducing or
eliminating symptoms, or preventing a disease or symptom.

A study of 33,301 nursing facility residents found that an average of 6.7 medications were
ordered per resident, with 27 percent of residents taking nine or more medications.2
Analysis of antipsychotic use by 693,000 Medicare nursing home residents revealed that
28.5 percent of the doses received were excessive and 32.2 percent lacked appropriate
indications for use. 3
 Proper medication selection and prescribing (including dose, duration, and type of
medication(s)) may help stabilize or improve a resident's outcome, quality of life and
functional capacity. Any medication or combination of medications or the use of a
medication without adequate indications, in excessive dose, for an excessive duration, or
without adequate monitoring may increase the risk of a broad range of adverse
consequences such as medication interactions, depression, confusion, immobility, falls,
and related hip fractures.

Intrinsic factors including physiological changes accompanying the aging process,
multiple comorbidities, and certain medical conditions may affect the absorption,
distribution, metabolism or elimination of medications from the body and may also
increase an individual's risk of adverse consequences.

While assuring that only those medications required to treat the resident's assessed
condition are being used, reducing the need for and maximizing the effectiveness of
medications are important considerations for all residents. Therefore, as part of all
medication management (including antipsychotics), it is important for the
interdisciplinary team to consider non-pharmacological approaches. Educating facility
staff and providers in addition to implementing non-pharmacological approaches to
resident conditions prior to, and/or in conjunction with, the use of medications may
minimize the need for medications or reduce the dose and duration of those medications.4

Examples of non-pharmacological interventions may include:

 Increasing the amount of resident exercise, intake of liquids and dietary fiber in
 conjunction with an individualized bowel regimen to prevent or reduce
 constipation and the use of medications (e.g. laxatives and stool softeners);

 Identifying, addressing, and eliminating or reducing underlying causes of
 distressed behavior such as boredom and pain;

 Using sleep hygiene techniques and individualized sleep routines;

 Accommodating the resident's behavior and needs by supporting and encouraging
 activities reminiscent of lifelong work or activity patterns, such as providing early
 morning activity for a farmer used to awakening early;

 Individualizing toileting schedules to prevent incontinence and avoid the use of
 incontinence medications that may have significant adverse consequences (e.g.,
 anticholinergic effects);

 Developing interventions that are specific to resident's interests, abilities,
 strengths and needs, such as simplifying or segmenting tasks for a resident who
 has trouble following complex directions;
 Using massage, hot/warm or cold compresses to address a resident's pain or
 discomfort; or

 Enhancing the taste and presentation of food, assisting the resident to eat,
 addressing food preferences, and increasing finger foods and snacks for an
 individual with dementia, to improve appetite and avoid the unnecessary use of
 medications intended to stimulate appetite.

The indications for initiating, withdrawing, or withholding medication(s), as well as the
use of non-pharmacological approaches, are determined by assessing the resident's
underlying condition, current signs and symptoms, and preferences and goals for
treatment. This includes, where possible, the identification of the underlying cause(s),
since a diagnosis alone may not warrant treatment with medication.

Orders from multiple prescribers can increase the resident's chances of receiving
unnecessary medications. Many residents receive orders for medications from several
practitioners, for example, attending and on-call physicians, consultants, and nurse
practitioner(s). It is important that the facility clearly identify who is responsible for
prescribing and identifying the indications for use of medication(s), for providing and
administering the medication(s), and for monitoring the resident for the effects and
potential adverse consequence of the medication regimen. This is also important when
care is delivered or ordered by diverse sources such as consultants, providers, or suppliers
(e.g., hospice or dialysis programs).

Staff and practitioner access to current medication references and pertinent clinical
protocols helps to promote safe administration and monitoring of medications. One of
the existing mechanisms to warn prescribers about risks associated with medications is
the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirement that manufacturers include within
the medication labeling warnings about adverse reactions and potential safety hazards
identified both before and after approval of a medication, and what to do if they occur
(Visit: www.fda.gov/medwatch/safety.htm). Manufacturers are required to update labels
to warn about newly identified safety hazards regardless of whether causation has been
proven and whether the medication is prescribed for a disease or condition that is not
included in the Indications and Usage section of the labeling (so-called off-label or
unapproved use). The FDA may require manufacturers to place statements about serious
problems in a prominently displayed box (so-called boxed or black box warnings),
which indicates a need to closely evaluate and monitor the potential benefits and risks of
that medication.

The facility's pharmacist is a valuable source of information about medications. Listings
or descriptions of most significant risks, recommended doses, medication interactions,
cautions, etc. can be found in widely available, standard references, and computer
software and systems that provide up-to-date information. It is important to note that
some of the medication information found in many of these references is not specific to
older adults or institutionalized individuals.
 Clinical standards of practice and clinical guidelines established by professional groups
are useful to guide clinicians. Some of the recognized clinical resources available for
understanding the overall treatment and management of medical problems, symptoms and
medication consequences and precautions include the:

 American Geriatrics Society www.americangeriatrics.org and
 www.geriatricsatyourfingertips.org;

 American Medical Directors Association www.amda.com;

 American Psychiatric Association www.psych.org;

 American Society of Consultant Pharmacists www.ASCP.com;

 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) www.ahrq.gov;

 American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry www.aagp.org;

 Association for Practitioners in Infection Control and Epidemiology
 www.apic.org;

 CMS Sharing Innovations in Quality Web site maintained at: http://siq.air.org;

 National Guideline Clearinghouse www.guideline.gov;

 Quality Improvement Organizations, Medicare Quality Improvement Community
 Initiatives www.medqic.org;

 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Food and Drug Administration
 Web site www.fda.gov/medwatch/safety.htm;

 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institute of Mental
 Health Web site, which includes publications and clinical research information
 www.nimh.nih.gov;

 Mace N, Rabins P. The 36-Hour Day: A Family Guide to Caring for Persons with
 Alzheimer Disease, Related Dementing Illnesses, and Memory Loss in Later Life;
 and

 Bathing without a battle www.bathingwithoutabattle.unc.edu.

NOTE: References to non-CMS sources or sites on the Internet included above or later
 in this document are provided as a service and do not constitute or imply
 endorsement of these organizations or their programs by CMS or the U.S.
 Department of Health and Human Services. CMS is not responsible for the
 content of pages found at these sites. URL addresses were current as of the
 date of this publication.

Although these guidelines generally emphasize the older adult resident, adverse
consequences can occur in anyone at any age; therefore, these requirements apply to
residents of all ages.

MEDICATION MANAGEMENT

Medication management is based in the care process and includes recognition or
identification of the problem/need, assessment, diagnosis/cause identification,
management/treatment, monitoring, and revising interventions, as warranted. The
attending physician plays a key leadership role in medication management by developing,
monitoring, and modifying the medication regimen in conjunction with residents and/or
representative(s) and other professionals and direct care staff (the interdisciplinary team).

When selecting medications and non-pharmacological interventions, members of the
interdisciplinary team participate in the care process to identify, assess, address, advocate
for, monitor, and communicate the resident's needs and changes in condition.

This guidance is intended to help the surveyor determine whether the facility's
medication management supports and promotes:

 Selection of medications(s) based on assessing relative benefits and risks to the
 individual resident;

 Evaluation of a resident's signs and symptoms, in order to identify the underlying
 cause(s), including adverse consequences of medications;

 Selection and use of medications in doses and for the duration appropriate to each
 resident's clinical conditions, age, and underlying causes of symptoms;

 The use of non-pharmacological interventions, when applicable, to minimize the
 need for medications, permit use of the lowest possible dose, or allow medications
 to be discontinued; and

 The monitoring of medications for efficacy and clinically significant adverse
 consequences.

The resident's clinical record documents and communicates to the entire team the basic
elements of the care process. Information about aspects of the care process related to
medications may be found in various locations within the record, such as: hospital
discharge summaries and transfer notes, progress notes and interdisciplinary notes,
history and physical examination, Resident Assessment Instrument (RAI), plan of care,
laboratory reports, professional consults, medication orders, Medication Regimen Review
 (MRR) reports, and Medication Administration Records (MAR).

Resident Choice A resident and/or representative(s) has the right to be informed about
the resident's condition; treatment options, relative risks and benefits of treatment,
required monitoring, expected outcomes of the treatment; and has the right to refuse care
and treatment. If a resident refuses treatment, the facility staff and physician should
inform the resident about the risks related to the refusal, and discuss appropriate
alternatives such as offering the medication at another time or in another dosage form, or
offer an alternative medication or non-pharmacological approach, if available.

Advance Directives A resident may have written or verbal directions related to
treatment choices (or a decision has been made by the resident's surrogate or
representative) in accordance with state law. An advance directive is a means for the
resident to communicate his or her wishes, which may include withdrawing or
withholding medications. Whether or not a resident has an advanced directive, the
facility is responsible for giving treatment, support, and other care that is consistent with
the resident's condition and applicable care instructions.

NOTE: Choosing not to be resuscitated (reflected in a Do Not Resuscitate (DNR)
 order) indicates that the resident should not be resuscitated if respirations
 and/or cardiac function cease. A DNR order by itself does not indicate that
 the resident has declined other appropriate treatment and services.

Under these regulations, medication management includes consideration of:

I. Indications for use of medication (including initiation or continued use of
 antipsychotic medication);

II. Monitoring for efficacy and adverse consequences;

III. Dose (including duplicate therapy);

IV. Duration;

V. Tapering of a medication dose/gradual dose reduction for antipsychotic
 medications; and

VI. Prevention, identification, and response to adverse consequences.
 I. Indications for Use of Medication (including Initiation or Continued Use of
 an Antipsychotic Medication)

An evaluation of the resident helps to identify his/her needs, comorbid conditions, and
prognosis to determine factors (including medications and new or worsening medical
conditions) that are affecting signs, symptoms, and test results. This evaluation process is
important when making initial medication/intervention selections and when deciding
whether to modify or discontinue a current medication intervention. Regarding as
needed (PRN) medications, it is important to evaluate and document the indication(s),
specific circumstance(s) for use, and the desired frequency of administration. As part of
the evaluation, gathering and analyzing information helps define clinical indications and
provide baseline data for subsequent monitoring. The evaluation also clarifies:

 Whether other causes for the symptoms (including behavioral distress that could
 mimic a psychiatric disorder) have been ruled out;

 Whether the signs, symptoms, or related causes are persistent or clinically
 significant enough (e.g., causing functional decline) to warrant the initiation or
 continuation of medication therapy;

 Whether non-pharmacological interventions are considered;

 Whether a particular medication is clinically indicated to manage the symptom or
 condition; and

 Whether the intended or actual benefit is sufficient to justify the potential risk(s)
 or adverse consequences associated with the selected medication, dose, and
 duration.

The content and extent of the evaluation may vary with the situation and may employ
various assessment instruments and diagnostic tools. Examples of information to be
considered and evaluated may include, but are not limited to, the following:

 An appropriately detailed evaluation of mental, physical, psychosocial, and
 functional status, including comorbid conditions and pertinent psychiatric
 symptoms and diagnoses and a description of resident complaints, symptoms, and
 signs (including the onset, scope, frequency, intensity, precipitating factors, and
 other important features);

 Each resident's goals and preferences;

 Allergies to medications and foods and potential for medication interactions;

 A history of prior and current medications and non-pharmacological interventions
 (including therapeutic effectiveness and any adverse consequences);
 Recognition of the need for end-of-life or palliative care; and

 The refusal of care and treatment, including the basis for declining it, and the
 identification of pertinent alternatives.

 NOTE: The CAAs, an integral part of the comprehensive resident assessment,
 help identify some possible categories of causes of various symptoms
 including: behavioral symptoms of distress, delirium, and changes in
 functional status. Refer to 42 CFR 483.20 and the MDS and CAAs.

Circumstances that warrant evaluation of the resident and medication(s) may include:

 Admission or re-admission;

 A clinically significant change in condition/status;

 A new, persistent, or recurrent clinically significant symptom or problem;

 A worsening of an existing problem or condition;

 An unexplained decline in function or cognition;

 A new medication order or renewal of orders; and

 An irregularity identified in the pharmacist's monthly medication regimen review.

Specific considerations related to these circumstances may include the following:

 Admission (or Readmission) Some residents may be admitted on medications
 for an undocumented chronic condition or without a clear indication as to why a
 medication was begun or should be continued. It is expected that the attending
 physician, pharmacist, and staff subsequently determine if continuing the
 medication is justified by evaluating the resident's clinical condition, risks,
 existing medication regimen, and related factors. If the indications for continuing
 the medication are unclear, or if the resident's symptoms could represent a
 clinically significant adverse consequence, additional consideration of the
 rationale for the medication(s) is warranted.

 Multiple prescribers Regardless of who the prescribers are, the continuation of
 a medication needs to be evaluated to determine if the medication is still
 warranted in the context of the resident's other medications and comorbidities.
 Medications prescribed by a specialist or begun in another care setting, such as the
 hospital, need to have a clinically pertinent documented rationale.

 New medication order as an emergency measure When a resident is
 experiencing an acute medical problem or psychiatric emergency (e.g., the
 resident's behavior poses an immediate risk to the resident or others), medications
 may be required. In these situations, it is important to identify and address the
 underlying causes of the problem or symptoms. Once the acute phase has
 stabilized, the staff and prescriber consider whether medications are still relevant.
 Subsequently, the medication is reduced or discontinued as soon as possible or
 the clinical rationale for continuing the medication is documented.

 When psychopharmacological medications are used as an emergency measure,
 adjunctive approaches, such as behavioral interventions and techniques should be
 considered and implemented as appropriate. Longer term management options
 should be discussed with the resident and/or representative(s).

 Psychiatric disorders or distressed behavior As with all symptoms, it is
 important to seek the underlying cause of distressed behavior, either before or
 while treating the symptom. Examples of potential causes include:

 o Delirium;

 o Pain;

 o Chronic psychiatric illness such as schizophrenia or schizoaffective
 disorder;

 o Acute psychotic illness such as brief reactive psychosis;

 o Substance intoxication or withdrawal;

 o Environmental stressors (e.g., excessive heat, noise, overcrowding);

 o Psychological stressors (e.g., disruption of the resident's customary daily
 routine, grief over nursing home admission or health status, abuse,
 taunting, intimidation);

 o Neurological illnesses such as Huntington's disease or Tourette's
 syndrome; or

 o Medical illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease, Lewy body disease,
 vascular dementia, or frontotemporal dementia.

See Table I below in these guidelines for key issues related to indications for use of
antipsychotic agents, monitoring, and adverse consequences.

II. Monitoring for Efficacy and Adverse Consequences

The information gathered during the initial and ongoing evaluations is essential to:
 Incorporate into a comprehensive care plan that reflects appropriate medication
 related goals and parameters for monitoring the resident's condition, including the
 likely medication effects and potential for adverse consequences. Examples of
 this information may include the FDA boxed warnings or adverse consequences
 that may be rare, but have sudden onset or that may be irreversible. If the facility
 has established protocols for monitoring specific medications and the protocols
 are accessible for staff use, the care plan may refer staff to these protocols;

 Optimize the therapeutic benefit of medication therapy and minimize or prevent
 potential adverse consequences;

 Establish parameters for evaluating the ongoing need for the medication; and

 Verify or differentiate the underlying diagnoses or other underlying causes of
 signs and symptoms.

The key objectives for monitoring the use of medications are to track progress towards
the therapeutic goal(s) and to detect the emergence or presence of any adverse
consequences. Effective monitoring relies upon understanding the indications and goals
for using the medication, identifying relevant baseline information, identifying the criteria
for evaluating the benefit(s) of the medication, and recognizing and evaluating adverse
consequences. Monitoring parameters are based on the resident's condition, the
pharmacologic properties of the medication being used and its associated risks,
individualized therapeutic goals, and the potential for clinically significant adverse
consequences.

Adverse consequences related to medications are common enough to warrant serious
attention and close monitoring. For example, a study reported that 338 (42%) of 815
adverse drug events were judged preventable, and that common omissions included
inadequate monitoring and either lack of response or a delayed response to signs,
symptoms, or laboratory evidence of medication toxicity.5

Sources of information to facilitate defining the monitoring criteria or parameters may
include cautions, warnings, and identified adverse consequences from:

 Manufacturers' package inserts and black-box warnings;

 Facility policies and procedures;

 Pharmacists;

 Clinical practice guidelines or clinical standards of practice;

 Medication references; and
 Clinical studies or evidence-based review articles that are published in medical
 and/or pharmacy journals.

Monitoring of the resident's response to any medication(s) is essential to evaluate the
ongoing benefits as well as risks of various medications. It is important, for example, to
monitor the effectiveness of medications used to address behavioral symptoms (e.g.,
behavioral monitoring) or to treat hypertension (e.g., periodic pulse and blood pressure).
Monitoring for adverse consequences involves ongoing vigilance and may periodically
involve objective evaluation (e.g., assessing vital signs may be indicated if a medication
is known to affect blood pressure, pulse rate and rhythm, or temperature). Using
quantitative and qualitative monitoring parameters facilitates consistent and objective
collection of information by the facility.

Examples of tools that may be used by facility staff, practitioners, or consultants to
determine baseline status as well as to monitor for effectiveness and potential adverse
consequences may include, but are not limited to the following:

Common Examples Potential Source/Reference
Conditions/ of Tools Applications
Symptoms www.endocrineweb.com/diabetes/diag
Diabetes Blood Diagnose nosis.html
 glucose, diabetes and www.diabetes.org/home.jsp
 Hemoglobin determine www.diabetes.niddk.nih.gov/
 A1C diabetic control www.diabetestoolbox.com/HbA1c.asp
 www.emedicine.com/med/topic3358.h
Alzheimer's Mini Mental Determine tm
Disease / Status Exam degree of www.fpnotebook.com/NEU75.htm
Dementia (MMSE) cognitive
 impairment www.cdc.gov/nchs/datawh/nchsdefs/ia
Functional Instrumental Assess dl.htm
Decline Activities of functional www.fpnotebook.com/GER3.htm
 Daily Living capabilities
 (IADL)

 Resident Assess aspects www.apadiv20.phhp.ufl.edu/fries.htm
 Assessment of nursing home www.careplans.com/pages/library/RAI
 Instrument resident's _user_guide.pdf
 (RAI) behavior and
 function

 Functional Assess level of http://geriatrics.uthscsa.edu/educationa
 Alzheimer's function in l/med_students/fastscale_admin.htm
 Screening individuals with
 Test (FAST) dementia
 Common Examples Potential Source/Reference
Conditions/ of Tools Applications
Symptoms www.hartfordign.org/publications/tryt
Delirium Confusion Screen for his/issue13.pdf
 Assessment cognitive http://elderlife.med.yale.edu/pdf/The%
Bipolar Method impairment and 20Confusion%20Assessment%20Meth
Disorder (CAM) delirium od.pdf
 www.psychiatryinpractice.com/Assess
Pain Mania Assess severity mentTools/default.aspx?11=3&12=3&
 13=&13=
Depression Rating Scale of mania www.brainexplorer.org/factsheets/Psy
 chiatry%20Rating%20Scales.pdf
 List of pain Assess pain www.chcr.brown.edu/pcoc/Physical.ht
 scales characteristics m
 (e.g., intensity,
 Geriatric impact, timing) www.assessmentpsychology.com/geria
 Depression Screen or tricscales.htm
 Scale monitor www.hartfordign.org/publications/tryt
 individuals at his/issue04.pdf
 risk for www.merck.com/mrkshared/mmg/tabl
 depression es/33t4.jsp

Abnormal Cornell Screen or www.emoryhealthcare.org/department
Movements Depression monitor for s/fuqua/CornellScale.pdf
 in Dementia depression in
 Scale individuals with www.carepaths.com/pages/Instruments
 cognitive _AIMS.asp
 Abnormal impairment www.mhsip.org/library/pdfFiles/abnor
 Involuntary Assess presence malinvoluntarymovementscale.pdf
 Movement and severity of
 Scales involuntary
 (AIMS) movements that
 may be due to
 disease or
 medications
 Common Examples Potential Source/Reference
Conditions/ of Tools Applications
Symptoms
Behavioral Neuro- Screen or www.alzheimer-
Symptoms psychiatric monitor for insights.com/insights/vol2no3/vol2no3
associated Inventory- behavior .htm
with Nursing associated with
Dementia Home dementia (e.g.,
 Version hallucinations,
 (NPI-NH) agitation or
 anxiety)

 Behavioral Provide a global www.alzforum.org/dis/dia/tes/neurops
 Pathology in rating of non- ychological.asp
 Alzheimer's cognitive
 Disease symptoms.
 Rating Scale
 (Behave
 AD)

 Cohen- Assess/rate www.researchinstituteonaging.org/asse
 Mansfield distressed ssment.html
 Agitation behavior in www.geriatrictimes.com/g010533.htm
 Inventory older l
 (CMAI) individuals

Monitoring involves several steps, including:

 Identifying the essential information and how it will be obtained and
 reported. It is important to consider who is responsible for obtaining the
 information, which information should be collected, and how the information will
 be documented. The information that is collected depends on therapeutic goals,
 detection of potential or actual adverse consequences, and consideration of risk
 factors, such as:

o Medication-medication, medication-food interactions;

o Clinical condition (for example renal disease);

o Properties of the medication;

o Black-box warnings; and

o History of adverse consequences related to a similar medication.
 Determining the frequency of monitoring. The frequency and duration of
 monitoring needed to identify therapeutic effectiveness and adverse consequences
 will depend on factors such as clinical standards of practice, facility policies and
 procedures, manufacturer's specifications, and the resident's clinical condition.
 Monitoring involves three aspects:

 o Periodic planned evaluation of progress toward the therapeutic goals;

 o Continued vigilance for adverse consequences; and

 o Evaluation of identified adverse consequences.

 For example, when monitoring all psychopharmacological medications and
 sedative/hypnotics, the facility should review the continued need for them, at least
 quarterly (i.e., a 3 month period), and document the rationale for continuing the
 medication, including evidence that the following had been evaluated:

 The resident's target symptoms and the effect of the medication on the
 severity, frequency, and other characteristics of the symptoms;

 Any changes in the resident's function during the previous quarter (e.g., as
 identified in the Minimum Data Set); and

 Whether the resident experienced any medication-related adverse
 consequences during the previous quarter.

 An important aspect of the review would include whether the pharmacological
 management of the resident's medical and/or psychiatric disorder is consistent
 with recommendations from relevant clinical practice guidelines, current
 standards of practice, and/or manufacturer's specifications.

 Defining the methods for communicating, analyzing, and acting upon
 relevant information. The monitoring process needs to identify who is to
 communicate with the prescriber, what information is to be conveyed, and when
 to ask the prescriber to evaluate and consider modifying the medication regimen.

 It is important to consider whether a resident's medications are promoting or
 maintaining a resident's highest practicable level of function. If the therapeutic
 goals are not being met or the resident is experiencing adverse consequences, it is
 essential for the prescriber in collaboration with facility staff and pharmacist to
 consider whether current medications and doses continue to be appropriate or
 should be reduced, changed, or discontinued.

 Re-evaluating and updating monitoring approaches. Modification of
 monitoring may be necessary when the resident experiences changes, such as:
 o Acute onset of signs or symptoms or worsening of chronic disease;

 o Decline in function or cognition;

 o Addition or discontinuation of medications and/or non-pharmacological
 interventions;

 o Addition or discontinuation of care and services such as enteral feedings;
 and

 o Significant changes in diet that may affect medication absorption or
 effectiveness or increase adverse consequences.

 Additional examples of circumstances that may indicate a need to modify the
 monitoring include: changes in manufacturer's specifications, FDA warnings,
 pertinent clinical practice guidelines, or other literature about how and what to
 monitor.

III. Dose (Including Duplicate Therapy)

A prescriber orders medication(s) based on a variety of factors including the resident's
diagnoses, signs and symptoms, current condition, age, coexisting medication regimen,
review of lab and other test results, input from the interdisciplinary team about the
resident, the type of medication(s), and therapeutic goals being considered or used.

Factors influencing the appropriateness of any dose include the resident's clinical
response, possible adverse consequences, and other resident and medication-related
variables. Often, lab test results such as serum medication concentrations are only a
rough guide to dosing. Significant adverse consequences can occur even when the
concentration is within the therapeutic range. Serum concentrations alone may not
necessarily indicate a need for dose adjustments, but may warrant further evaluation of a
dose or the medication regimen.

The route of administration influences a medication's absorption and ultimately the dose
received. Examples of factors that can affect the absorption of medications delivered by
transdermal patches include skin temperature and moisture, and the integrity of the patch.
Similarly, the flow rate of intravenous solutions affects the amount received at a given
time.

Duplicate therapy is generally not indicated, unless current clinical standards of practice
and documented clinical rationale confirm the benefits of multiple medications from the
same class or with similar therapeutic effects. Some examples of potentially problematic
duplicate therapy include:
 Use of more than one product containing the same medication can lead to
 excessive doses of a medication, such as concomitant use of
 acetaminophen/hydrocodone and acetaminophen, which may increase the risk of
 acetaminophen toxicity;

 Use of multiple laxatives to improve or maintain bowel movements, which may
 lead to abdominal pain or diarrhea;

 Concomitant use of multiple benzodiazepines such as lorazepam for anxiety and
 temazepam for sleep, which may increase fall risk; or

 Use of medications from different therapeutic categories that have similar effects
 or properties, such as multiple medications with anticholinergic effects (e.g.,
 oxybutynin and diphenhydramine), which may increase the risk of delirium or
 excessive sedation.

Documentation is necessary to clarify the rationale for and benefits of duplicate therapy
and the approach to monitoring for benefits and adverse consequences. This
documentation may be found in various areas of the resident's clinical record.

IV. Duration

Many conditions require treatment for extended periods, while others may resolve and no
longer require medication therapy. For example:

 Acute conditions such as cough and cold symptoms, upper respiratory condition,
 nausea and/or vomiting, acute pain, psychiatric or behavioral symptoms;

 Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)/H2 blockers used for prophylaxis during the acute
 phase of a medical illness should be tapered and possibly discontinued after the
 acute phase of the illness has resolved, unless there is a valid clinical indication
 for prolonged use.

Periodic re-evaluation of the medication regimen is necessary to determine whether
prolonged or indefinite use of a medication is indicated. The clinical rationale for
continued use of a medication(s) may have been demonstrated in the clinical record, or
the staff and prescriber may present pertinent clinical reasons for the duration of use.
Common considerations for appropriate duration may include:

 A medication initiated as a result of a time-limited condition (for example,
 delirium, pain, infection, nausea and vomiting, cold and cough symptoms, or
 itching) is then discontinued when the condition has resolved, or there is
 documentation indicating why continued use is still relevant. Failure to review
 whether the underlying cause has resolved may lead to excessive duration.

 A medication is discontinued when indicated by facility stop order policy or by
 the prescriber's order, unless there is documentation of the clinical justification
 for its extended use. A medication administered beyond the stop date established
 in the prescriber's order or by facility policy, without evidence of clinical
 justification for continued use of the medication, may be considered excessive
 duration.

V. Tapering of a Medication Dose/Gradual Dose Reduction (GDR)

The requirements underlying this guidance emphasize the importance of seeking an
appropriate dose and duration for each medication and minimizing the risk of adverse
consequences. The purpose of tapering a medication is to find an optimal dose or to
determine whether continued use of the medication is benefiting the resident.
Tapering may be indicated when the resident's clinical condition has improved or
stabilized, the underlying causes of the original target symptoms have resolved, and/or
non-pharmacological interventions, including behavioral interventions, have been
effective in reducing the symptoms.

There are various opportunities during the care process to evaluate the effects of
medications on a resident's function and behavior, and to consider whether the
medications should be continued, reduced, discontinued, or otherwise modified.
Examples of these opportunities include:

 During the monthly medication regimen review, the pharmacist evaluates
 resident-related information for dose, duration, continued need, and the
 emergence of adverse consequences for all medications;

 When evaluating the resident's progress, the practitioner reviews the total plan of
 care, orders, the resident's response to medication(s), and determines whether to
 continue, modify, or stop a medication; and

 During the quarterly MDS review, the facility evaluates mood, function, behavior,
 and other domains that may be affected by medications.

Sometimes, the decision about whether to continue a medication is clear; for example,
someone with a history of multiple episodes of depression or recurrent seizures may need
an antidepressant or anticonvulsant medication indefinitely. Often, however, the only
way to know whether a medication is needed indefinitely and whether the dose remains
appropriate is to try reducing the dose and to monitor the resident closely for
improvement, stabilization, or decline.

The time frames and duration of attempts to taper any medication depend on factors
including the coexisting medication regimen, the underlying causes of symptoms,
individual risk factors, and pharmacologic characteristics of the medications. Some
medications (e.g., antidepressants, sedative/hypnotics, opioids) require more gradual
tapering so as to minimize or prevent withdrawal symptoms or other adverse
consequences.
 NOTE: If the resident's condition has not responded to treatment or has
 declined despite treatment, it is important to evaluate both the
 medication and the dose to determine whether the medication should be
 discontinued or the dosing should be altered, whether or not the facility
 has implemented GDR as required, or tapering.

Considerations Specific to Antipsychotics. The regulation addressing the use of
antipsychotic medications identifies the process of tapering as a gradual dose reduction
(GDR) and requires a GDR, unless clinically contraindicated.

Within the first year in which a resident is admitted on an antipsychotic medication or
after the facility has initiated an antipsychotic medication, the facility must attempt a
GDR in two separate quarters (with at least one month between the attempts), unless
clinically contraindicated. After the first year, a GDR must be attempted annually, unless
clinically contraindicated.

For any individual who is receiving an antipsychotic medication to treat behavioral
symptoms related to dementia, the GDR may be considered clinically contraindicated if:

 The resident's target symptoms returned or worsened after the most recent
 attempt at a GDR within the facility; and

 The physician has documented the clinical rationale for why any additional
 attempted dose reduction at that time would be likely to impair the resident's
 function or increase distressed behavior.

For any individual who is receiving an antipsychotic medication to treat a psychiatric
disorder other than behavioral symptoms related to dementia (for example, schizophrenia,
bipolar mania, or depression with psychotic features), the GDR may be considered
contraindicated, if:

 The continued use is in accordance with relevant current standards of practice and
 the physician has documented the clinical rationale for why any attempted dose
 reduction would be likely to impair the resident's function or cause psychiatric
 instability by exacerbating an underlying psychiatric disorder; or

 The resident's target symptoms returned or worsened after the most recent
 attempt at a GDR within the facility and the physician has documented the
 clinical rationale for why any additional attempted dose reduction at that time
 would be likely to impair the resident's function or cause psychiatric instability
 by exacerbating an underlying medical or psychiatric disorder.

Attempted Tapering Relative to Continued Indication or Optimal Dose
 As noted, attempted tapering is one way to determine whether a specific medication is
still indicated, and whether target symptoms and risks can be managed with a lesser dose
of a medication. As noted, many medications in various categories can be tapered safely.
The following examples of tapering relate to two common categories of concern:
sedatives / hypnotics and psychopharmacologic medications (other than antipsychotic and
sedatives/hypnotics medications).

Tapering Considerations Specific to Sedatives/Hypnotics.

For as long as a resident remains on a sedative/hypnotic that is used routinely and beyond
the manufacturer's recommendations for duration of use, the facility should attempt to
taper the medication quarterly unless clinically contraindicated. Clinically contraindicated
means:

 The continued use is in accordance with relevant current standards of practice and
 the physician has documented the clinical rationale for why any attempted dose
 reduction would be likely to impair the resident's function or cause psychiatric
 instability by exacerbating an underlying medical or psychiatric disorder; or

 The resident's target symptoms returned or worsened after the most recent
 attempt at tapering the dose within the facility and the physician has documented
 the clinical rationale for why any additional attempted dose reduction at that time
 would be likely to impair the resident's function or cause psychiatric instability
 by exacerbating an underlying medical or psychiatric disorder.

Considerations Specific to Psychopharmacological Medications (Other Than
Antipsychotics and Sedatives/Hypnotics).

During the first year in which a resident is admitted on a psychopharmacological
medication (other than an antipsychotic or a sedative/hypnotic), or after the facility has
initiated such medication, the facility should attempt to taper the medication during at
least two separate quarters (with at least one month between the attempts), unless
clinically contraindicated. After the first year, a tapering should be attempted annually,
unless clinically contraindicated. The tapering may be considered clinically
contraindicated, if:

 The continued use is in accordance with relevant current standards of practice and
 the physician has documented the clinical rationale for why any attempted dose
 reduction would be likely to impair the resident's function or cause psychiatric
 instability by exacerbating an underlying medical or psychiatric disorder; or

 The resident's target symptoms returned or worsened after the most recent
 attempt at tapering the dose within the facility and the physician has documented
 the clinical rationale for why any additional attempted dose reduction at that time
 would be likely to impair the resident's function or cause psychiatric instability
 by exacerbating an underlying medical or psychiatric disorder.
 VI. Adverse Consequences

Any medication or combination of medications (for example interactions between
multiple medications with sedative or anticholinergic effects) can cause adverse
consequences. Some adverse consequences occur quickly or abruptly, while others are
more insidious and develop over time. Adverse consequences may become evident at any
time after the medication is initiated, e.g., when there is a change in dose or after another
medication has been added.

When reviewing medications used for a resident, it is important to be aware of the
medication's recognized safety profile, tolerability, dosing, and potential medication
interactions. Although a resident may have an unanticipated reaction to a medication that
is not always preventable, many ADRs can be anticipated, minimized, or prevented.
Some adverse consequences may be avoided by:

 Following relevant clinical guidelines and manufacturer's specifications for use,
 dose, administration, duration, and monitoring of the medication;

 Defining appropriate indications for use; and

 Determining that the resident:

 o Has no known allergies to the medication;

 o Is not taking other medications, nutritional supplements including herbal
 products, or foods that would be incompatible with the prescribed
 medication; and

 o Has no condition, history, or sensitivities that would preclude use of that
 medication.

Published studies have sought to identify the frequency, severity, and preventability of
adverse consequences. Neuropsychiatric, hemorrhagic, gastrointestinal, renal/electrolyte
abnormalities and metabolic/endocrine complications were the most common overall and
preventable adverse consequences identified in two nursing home studies. Specifically, a
study of 18 community-based nursing homes reported that approximately 50 percent
(276/546) of all the adverse consequences and 72 percent of those characterized as fatal,
life-threatening, or serious were considered preventable.6 A second study of two
academic-based nursing homes reported that inadequate monitoring, failure to act on the
monitoring, and errors in ordering, including wrong dose, wrong medication, and
medication-medication interactions were the most frequent causes for the preventable
adverse consequences.7

The risk for adverse consequences increases with both the number of medications being
taken regularly and with medications from specific pharmacological classes, such as
 anticoagulants, diuretics, antipsychotics, anti-infectives, and anticonvulsants.8,9 See
Tables I and II for classes of medications that are associated with frequent or severe
adverse consequences. Adverse consequences can range from minimal harm to
functional decline, hospitalization, permanent injury, and death.

Delirium (i.e., acute confusional state) is a common medication-related adverse
consequence. In many facilities, a majority of the residents have dementia. Individuals
who have dementia may be more sensitive to medication effects and may be at greater
risk for delirium.10 Delirium may result from treatable underlying causes including
medical conditions and the existing medication regimen. The presence of delirium is
associated with higher morbidity and mortality. Some of the classic signs of delirium
may be difficult to recognize and may be mistaken for the natural progression of
dementia, particularly in the late stages of dementia. Careful observation of the resident
(including mental status and level of consciousness), review of the potential causes (e.g.,
medications, fluid and electrolyte imbalance, infections) of the mental changes and
distressed behavior, and appropriate and timely management of delirium are essential.

ENDNOTES

1 Adapted from American Society of Consultant Pharmacists (ASCP) Guidelines for
 Assessing the Quality of Drug Regimen Review in Long-Term Care Facilities.

2 Tobias, DE & Sey, M. (2001). General and psychotherapeutic medication use in 328
 nursing facilities: A year 2000 national survey. The Consultant Pharmacist, 15,
 pp. 34-42.

3 Briesacher, B.A., Limcangco, M.R., Simoni-Wastila, L., Doshi, J.A., Levens, S.R.,
 Shea, D.G., & Stuart, B. (2005). The quality of antipsychotic drug prescribing in
 nursing homes. Archives of Internal Medicine, 165, pp. 1280-1285.

4 Ray, W.A., Taylor, J.A., Meador, K.G., Lichtenstein, M.J., Griffin, M.R., Fought, R.,
 Adams, M.L., & Blazer, D.G. (1993). Reducing antipsychotic drug use in nursing
 homes. A controlled trial of provider education. Archives of Internal Medicine,
 153(6), pp. 713-21.

5 Gurwitz, J.H., Field, T.S., Judge, J., Rochon, P., Harrold, L.R., Cadoret, C., Lee, M.,
 White, K., LaPrino, J., Erramuspe-Mainard, J., DeFlorio, M., Gavendo, L., Auger,
 J., & Bates, D.W. (2005). Incidence of adverse drug consequences in two large
 academic long-term care facilities. American Journal of Medicine, 118, pp. 251-
 258.

6 Gurwitz, J.H., Field, T.S., Avorn, J., McCormick, D., Jain, S., Eckler, M., Benser, M.,
 Edmondson, A.C., & Bates, D.W. (2000). Incidence and preventability of adverse
 drug events in nursing homes. American Journal of Medicine, 109, pp. 87-94.

7 Gurwitz, J.H., Field, T.S., Avorn, J., McCormick, D., Jain, S., Eckler, M., Benser, M.,
 Edmondson, A.C., & Bates, D.W. (2000). Incidence and preventability of adverse
 drug events in nursing homes. American Journal of Medicine, 109, pp. 87-94.

8 Field T.S., Gurwitz J.H., Avorn J., McCormick, D., Shailavi, J., Eckler, M., Benser,
 M., & Bates, D.W. (2001). Risk factors for adverse drug events among nursing
 home residents. Archives of Internal Medicine, 161, pp. 1629-34.

9 Denham, M.J. (1990). Adverse drug reactions. British Medical Bulletin, 46, pp. 53-62.

10 Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice, 5th ed., (2002). Marx,
 J.A., Hockberger, R.S., Walls, R.M., Adams, J., Barkin, R.M., Danzl, D.F.,
 Gausche-Hill, M., Hamilton, G.C., Ling, L.J., & Newton, E. (Eds.). St Louis:
 Mosby, Inc., p. 1469.
 TABLE I

MEDICATION ISSUES OF PARTICULAR RELEVANCE

This table lists alphabetically, examples of some categories of medications that have the
potential to cause clinically significant adverse consequences, that may have limited
indications for use, require specific monitoring, and which warrant careful consideration
of relative risks and benefit. Inclusion of a medication in this table does not imply that it
is contraindicated for every resident. Medications are identified by generic rather than
trade names.

NOTE: This table is based on review of a variety of pharmaceutical references.
 It does not include all categories of medications or all medications
 within a category, and does not address all issues or considerations
 related to medication use, such as dosages. Medications other than
 those listed in this table may present significant issues related to
 indications, dosage, duration, monitoring, or potential for clinically
 significant adverse consequences.

Since medication issues continue to evolve and new medications are being approved
regularly, it is important to refer to a current authoritative source for detailed medication
information such as indications and precautions, dosage, monitoring, or adverse
consequences.

The listed doses for psychopharmacological medications are applicable to older
individuals. The facility is encouraged to initiate therapy with lower doses and, when
necessary, only gradually increase doses. The facility may exceed these doses if it
provides evidence to show why higher doses were necessary to maintain or improve the
resident's function and quality of life.

 Medication Issues and Concerns
Analgesics
acetaminophen Dosage / Adverse Consequences

 Daily doses greater than 4 grams/day from all
 sources (alone or as part of combination products)
 may increase risk of liver toxicity

 Monitoring
 For doses greater than the maximum

 recommended daily dose, documented assessment
 should reflect periodic monitoring of liver function
 and indicate that benefits outweigh risks
 Medication Issues and Concerns

Non-Steroidal Anti- Indications
Inflammatory Drugs
(NSAIDs) NSAID, including COX-2 inhibitors, should be
 reserved for symptoms and/or inflammatory
Non-selective NSAIDs, e.g., conditions for which lower risk analgesics (e.g.,
 acetaminophen) have either failed, or are not
 aspirin clinically indicated
 diclofenac
 diflunisal Exception: Use of low dose aspirin (81 325
 ibuprofen mg/day) as prophylactic treatment for
 indomethacin cardiovascular events such as myocardial
 ketorolac infarct or stroke may be appropriate
 meclofenamate
 naproxen Interactions
 piroxicam
 salicylates Aspirin may increase the adverse effects of COX-2
 tolmetin inhibitors on the gastrointestinal (GI) tract

 Some NSAIDS (e.g., ibuprofen) may reduce the
 cardioprotective effect of aspirin

Cyclooxygenase-II (COX-2) Monitoring
inhibitors, e.g.,
 Monitor closely for bleeding when ASA > 325
 celecoxib mg/day is being used with another NSAID or
 when NSAIDS are used with other platelet
 inhibitors or anticoagulants (See See 42 CFR
 483.60(c) F428 for Table of Common
 Medication-Medication Interactions in Long
 Term Care)

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding in anyone
 with a prior history of, or with increased risk for,
 GI bleeding. Compared to nonselective NSAIDs,
 COX-2 inhibitors may reduce but do not
 eliminate risk of gastrointestinal bleeding

 May cause bleeding in anyone who is receiving
 warfarin, heparin, other anticoagulants, or platelets
 inhibitors (e.g., ticlopidine, clopidogrel, and
 dipyridamole)

 Any NSAID may cause or worsen renal failure,
 increase blood pressure, or exacerbate heart failure

 Prolonged use of indomethacin, piroxicam,
 tolmetin, and meclofenamate should be avoided
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 because of central nervous system side effects,
 e.g., headache, dizziness, somnolence, confusion

Opioid analgesics Indications

Short-acting, e.g., The initiation of longer-acting opioid analgesics is
 not recommended unless shorter-acting opioids
 codeine have been tried unsuccessfully, or titration of
 fentanyl shorter-acting doses has established a clear daily
 hydrocodone dose of opioid analgesic that can be provided by
 hydromorphone using a long-acting form
 meperidine
 morphine Meperidine is not an effective oral analgesic in
 oxycodone doses commonly used in older individuals

Long-acting, e.g., Adverse Consequences

 fentanyl, transdermal May cause constipation, nausea, vomiting,
 methadone sedation, lethargy, weakness confusion, dysphoria,
 morphine sustained physical and psychological dependency,
 hallucinations and unintended respiratory
 release depression, especially in individuals with
 oxycodone, sustained compromised pulmonary function. These can lead
 to other adverse consequences such as falls
 release
 Meperidine use (oral or injectable) may cause
 confusion, respiratory depression even with
 therapeutic analgesic doses

 Active metabolite of meperidine (normerperidine)
 accumulates with repeated use and has been
 associated with seizures

pentazocine Indications

 Limited effectiveness because it is a partial opiate
 agonist-antagonist; is not recommended for use in
 older individuals

 Adverse Consequences

 This opioid analgesic causes central nervous
 system side effects (including confusion and
 hallucinations) more commonly than other opioid
 analgesics

 May cause dizziness, lightheadedness, euphoria,
 sedation, hypotension, tachycardia, syncope
 Medication Issues and Concerns
propoxyphene and
combination products with Indications
aspirin or acetaminophen
 Offers few analgesic advantages over
Antibiotics acetaminophen, yet has the adverse effects,
All antibiotics including addiction risk, of other opioid
 medications; is not recommended for use in older
Parenteral vancomycin and individuals
aminoglycosides, e.g.,
 Adverse Consequences
 amikacin
 gentamycin/ May cause hypotension and central nervous system
 effects (e.g., confusion, drowsiness, dizziness) that
 gentamicin can lead to other adverse consequences such as
 tobramycin falls

 Indications

 Use of antibiotics should be limited to confirmed
 or suspected bacterial infection

 Adverse Consequences

 Any antibiotic may cause diarrhea, nausea,
 vomiting, anorexia, and hypersensitivity/allergic
 reactions

 Antibiotics are non-selective and may result in the
 eradication of beneficial microorganisms and the
 emergence of undesired ones, causing secondary
 infections such as oral thrush, colitis, and vaginitis

 Monitoring

 Use must be accompanied by monitoring of renal
 function tests (which should be compared with
 the baseline) and by serum medication
 concentrations

 Serious adverse consequences may occur
 insidiously if adequate monitoring does not occur

 Exception: Single dose administration prophylaxis

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause or worsen hearing loss and renal
 Medication Issues and Concerns
nitrofurantoin
 failure
Fluoroquinolones, e.g.,
 ciprofloxacin Indications
 levofloxacin
 moxifloxacin It is not the anti-infective/antibiotic of choice for
 ofloxacin treatment of acute urinary tract infection or
 prophylaxis in individuals with impaired renal
Anticoagulants function (CrCl <60 ml/min) because of
warfarin ineffectiveness and the high risk of serious adverse
 consequences

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause pulmonary fibrosis (e.g., symptoms
 including dyspnea, cough) and peripheral
 neuropathy

 Indications

 Use should be avoided in individuals with
 prolonged QTc intervals or who are receiving
 antiarrhythmic agents in class Ia (e.g.,
 procainamide), class Ic (e.g., flecainide) or class III
 (e.g., amiodarone)

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause prolonged QTc interval

 May increase risk of hypo- or hyperglycemia in
 individuals age 65 or older, and in individuals with
 diabetes mellitus, renal insufficiency (CrCl < 60
 ml/min), or those receiving other glucose-altering
 medications

 May increase risk of acute tendonitis

 Monitoring

 Use must be monitored by Prothrombin Time
 (PT)/International Normalization Ratio (INR), with
 frequency determined by clinical circumstances,
 duration of use, and stability of monitoring results

 Adverse Consequences

 Multiple medication interactions exist (See 42 CFR
 Medication Issues and Concerns

Anticonvulsants 483.60(c) F428 for Table of Common Medication-
All anticonvulsants, e.g., Medication Interactions in Long Term Care), which
 may:
 carbamazepine
 gabapentin o Significantly increase PT/INR results to
 lamotrigine levels associated with life-threatening
 levetiracetam bleeding, or
 oxcarbazepine
 phenobarbital o Decrease PT/INR results to ineffective
 phenytoin levels, or
 primidone
 valproic acid o Increase or decrease the serum
 concentration of the interacting medication

 Indications

 In addition to seizures, may also be used to treat
 other disorders, such as bipolar disorder,
 schizoaffective disorder, chronic neuropathic pain,
 and for prophylaxis of migraine headaches

 Need for indefinite continuation should be based
 on confirmation of the condition (for example,
 distinguish epilepsy from isolated seizure due to
 medical cause or distinguish migraine from other
 causes of headaches) and its potential causes
 (medications, electrolyte imbalance, hypocalcemia,
 etc.)

 Duration

 If used to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or
 treat a psychiatric disorder, refer to Section V 
 Tapering of a Medication Dose/Gradual Dose
 Reduction (GDR) in the guidance

 Monitoring

 Serum medication concentration monitoring is not
 required or available for all anticonvulsants. Only
 the following anticonvulsants should be monitored
 with periodic serum concentrations: phenytoin,
 phenobarbital, primidone, divalproex sodium (as
 valproic acid), and carbamazepine

 Serum medication concentrations may help
 identify toxicity, but significant signs and
 symptoms of toxicity can occur even at normal or
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 low serum concentrations.

 When anticonvulsants are used for conditions
 other than seizure disorders (e.g., as mood
 stabilizers), the same concerns exist regarding the
 need for monitoring for effectiveness and side
 effects; but evaluation of symptoms not serum
 concentrations should be used to adjust doses.
 High or toxic serum concentrations should,
 however, be evaluated and considered for dosage
 adjustments

 Symptom control for seizures or behavior can
 occur with subtherapeutic serum medication
 concentrations

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause liver dysfunction, blood dyscrasias, and
 serious skin rashes requiring discontinuation of
 treatment

 May cause nausea/vomiting, dizziness, ataxia,
 somnolence/lethargy, incoordination, blurred or
 double vision, restlessness, toxic encephalopathy,
 anorexia, headaches. These effects can increase
 the risk for falls

Antidepressants

All antidepressants classes, Indications
e.g.,
 Agents usually classified as antidepressants are
Alpha-adrenoceptor prescribed for conditions other than depression
antagonist, e.g., including anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress
 disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, insomnia,
 mirtazapine neuropathic pain (e.g., diabetic peripheral
Dopamine-reuptake blocking neuropathy), migraine headaches, urinary
compounds, e.g., incontinence, and others

 bupropion Dosage
Monoamine oxidase
inhibitors (MAOIs) Use of two or more antidepressants simultaneously
Serotonin (5-HT 2) may increase risk of side effects; in such cases,
antagonists, e.g., there should be documentation of expected
 benefits that outweigh the associated risks and
 nefazodone monitoring for any increase in side effects
 trazodone
Selective serotonin-
norepinephrine reuptake
 Medication Issues and Concerns

inhibitors (SNRIs), e.g., Duration
 duloxetine,
 venlafaxine Duration should be in accordance with pertinent
 literature, including clinical practice guidelines
Selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (SSRIs), e.g., Prior to discontinuation, many antidepressants may
 need a gradual dose reduction or tapering to avoid
 citalopram a withdrawal syndrome (e.g., SSRIs, TCAs)
 escitalopram
 fluoxetine If used to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or treat
 fluvoxamine a psychiatric disorder, refer to Section V 
 paroxetine Tapering of a Medication Dose/Gradual Dose
 sertraline Reduction (GDR) in the guidance
Tricyclic (TCA) and related
compounds Monitoring

 All residents being treated for depression with any
 antidepressant should be monitored closely for
 worsening of depression and/or suicidal behavior
 or thinking, especially during initiation of therapy
 and during any change in dosage

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 May cause dizziness, nausea, diarrhea, anxiety,
 nervousness, insomnia, somnolence, weight gain,
 anorexia, or increased appetite. Many of these
 effects can increase the risk for falls

 Bupropion may increase seizure risk and be
 associated with seizures in susceptible individuals

 SSRIs in combination with other medications
 affecting serotonin (e.g., tramadol, St. John's
 Wort, linezolid, other SSRI's) may increase the
 risk for serotonin syndrome and seizures

Monoamine oxidase Indications/Contraindications
inhibitors (MAOIs), e.g.,
 Should not be administered to anyone with a
 isocarboxazid confirmed or suspected cerebrovascular defect or
 phenelzine to anyone with confirmed cardiovascular disease
 tranylcypromine or hypertension

 Should not be used in the presence of
 pheochromocytoma

 MAO Inhibitors are rarely utilized due to their
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 potential interactions with tyramine or tryptophan-
 containing foods, other medications, and their
 profound effect on blood pressure

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause hypertensive crisis if combined with
 certain foods, cheese, wine

 Exception: Monoamine oxidase inhibitors such as
 selegiline (MAO-B inhibitors) utilized for
 Parkinson's Disease, unless used in doses greater
 than 10 mg per day

 Interactions

 Should not be administered together or in rapid
 succession with other MAO inhibitors, tricyclic
 antidepressants, bupropion, SSRIs, buspirone,
 sympathomimetics, meperidine, triptans, and other
 medications that affect serotonin or norepinephrine

Tricyclic antidepressants Indications
(TCAs), e.g.,
 Because of strong anticholinergic and sedating
 amitriptyline properties, TCAs and combination products are
 amoxapine rarely the medication of choice in older individuals
 doxepin
 combination Exception: Use of TCAs may be appropriate
 if:
 products, e.g.,
 o The resident is being treated for
 o amitriptyline and neurogenic pain (e.g., trigeminal
 chlordiazepoxide neuralgia, peripheral neuropathy), based
 on documented evidence to support the
 o amitripytline and diagnosis; and
 perphenazine

 o The relative benefits outweigh the risks
 and other, safer agents including non-
 pharmacological interventions or
 alternative therapies are not indicated or
 have been considered, attempted, and
 failed

 Adverse Consequences

 Compared to other categories of antidepressants,
 TCAs cause significant anticholinergic side effects
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 and sedation (nortriptyline and desipramine are
 less problematic)

Antidiabetic medications

Insulin and oral Monitoring
hypoglycemics, e.g.,
 Use of anti-diabetic medications should include
 acarbose monitoring (for example, periodic blood sugars)
 acetohexamide for effectiveness based on desired goals for that
 chlorpropamide individual and to identify complications of
 glimepiride treatment such as hypoglycemia, impaired renal
 glipizide function
 glyburide
 metformin NOTE: Continued or long-term need for sliding
 repaglinide scale insulin for non-emergency coverage
 rosiglitazone may indicate inadequate blood sugar
 tolazamide control
 tolbutamide
 Residents on rosiglitazone should be monitored for
Including combination visual deterioration due to new onset and/or
products, e.g., worsening of macular edema in diabetic patients

 rosiglitazone/ Adverse Consequences
 metformin
 Metformin has been associated with the
 glyburide/metformin development of lactic acidosis (a potentially life
 glipizide/metformin threatening metabolic disorder), which is more
 pioglitazone/ likely to occur in individuals with:

 metformin o serum creatinine 1.5 mg/dL in males or 
 1.4 mg/dL in females

 o abnormal creatinine clearance from any
 cause, including shock, acute myocardial
 infarction, or septicemia

 o age 80 years unless measurement of
 creatinine clearance verifies normal renal
 function

 o radiologic studies in which intravascular
 iodinated contrast materials are given

 o congestive heart failure requiring
 pharmacological management

 o acute or chronic metabolic acidosis with or
 without coma (including diabetic
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 ketoacidosis)

 Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone have been
 associated with edema and weight gain; therefore,
 their use should be avoided in residents with Stage
 III or Stage IV heart failure

 Sulfonylureas can cause the syndrome of
 inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) and
 result in hyponatremia

chlorpropamide Indications

glyburide Chlorpropamide and glyburide are not considered
 hypoglycemic agents of choice in older individuals
 because of the long half-life and/or duration of
 action and increased risk of hypoglycemia

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause prolonged and serious hypoglycemia
 (with symptoms including tachycardia,
 palpitations, irritability, headache, hypothermia,
 visual disturbances, lethargy, confusion, seizures,
 and/or coma)

Antifungals Indications

Imidazoles for systemic use, Should be used in lowest possible dose for shortest
e.g., possible duration, especially in anyone receiving
 other medications known to interact with these
 fluconazole medications
 itraconazole
 ketoconazole

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 Interaction with warfarin can cause markedly
 elevated PT/INR, increasing bleeding risk

 Multiple potentially significant medication
 interactions may occur, for example:

 o These medications when administered
 concurrently may increase the effect or
 toxicity of phenytoin, theophylline,
 sulfonylureas (hypoglycemics)

 o Other medications such as rifampin and
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 cimetidine may decrease the effect of these
 antifungals

 May cause hepatotoxicity, headaches, GI distress

 Monitoring

 Enhanced monitoring may be required to identify
 and minimize adverse consequences when these
 antifungals are given with the following:

 o warfarin (PT/INR)

 o phenytoin (serum phenytoin levels)

 o theophylline (serum theophylline levels)

 o sulfonylureas (fasting blood glucose)

Antimanic medications

Lithium Indications

 Should generally not be given to individuals with
 significant renal or cardiovascular disease, severe
 debilitation, dehydration, or sodium depletion

 Monitoring

 Toxic levels are very close to therapeutic levels.
 Serum lithium concentration should be monitored
 periodically, and dosage adjusted accordingly

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 May cause potentially dangerous sodium
 imbalance

 Adverse consequences may occur at relatively low
 serum concentrations (1 1.5 mEq/L)

 Serum lithium concentration levels can be affected
 by many other medications, e.g., thiazide
 diurectics, ACE inhibitors, NSAIDs

Antiparkinson medications

All classes, e.g., Adverse Consequences

Catechol-O-Methyl May cause significant confusion, restlessness,
 Medication Issues and Concerns

Transferase (COMT) delirium, dyskinesia, nausea, dizziness,
Inhibitors, e.g., hallucinations, agitation

 entacapone Increased risk of postural hypotension and falls,
 especially when given in conjunction with
Dopamine agonists, e.g., antihypertensive medications
 bromocriptine
 ropinirole
 pramipexole

MAO inhibitors, e.g.,
 selegiline

Others, e.g.,
 amantadine

Various dopaminergic
combinations, e.g.,

 carbidopa/levodopa
 carbidopa/levodopa/

 entacapone

Antipsychotic medications

All classes, e.g., Indications for Use:

First generation A. Conditions Other than Dementia
(conventional) agents, e.g.
 chlorpromazine An antipsychotic medication should generally be
 fluphenazine used only for the following conditions/diagnoses as
 haloperidol documented in the record and as meets the
 loxapine definition(s) in the Diagnostic and Statistical
 mesoridazine Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition,
 molindone Training Revision (DSM-IV TR) or subsequent
 perphenazine editions):
 promazine
 thioridazine o Schizophrenia
 thiothixene
 trifluoperazine o Schizo-affective disorder
 triflupromazine
 o Schizophreniform disorder

Second generation (atypical) o Delusional disorder
agents, e.g.
 asenapine o Mood disorders (e.g. bipolar disorder,
 aripiprazole severe depression refractory to other
 clozapine therapies and/or with psychotic
 iloperidone features)
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 lurasidone o Psychosis in the absence of dementia
 olanzapine
 paliperidone o Medical illnesses with psychotic
 quetiapine symptoms (e.g., neoplastic disease or
 risperidone delirium) and/or treatment related
 ziprasidone psychosis or mania (e.g., high-dose
 steroids)

 o Tourette's Disorder

 o Huntington disease

 o Hiccups (not induced by other
 medications)

 o Nausea and vomiting associated with
 cancer or chemotherapy

 B. Behavioral or Psychological Symptoms of
 Dementia (BPSD)

 (Use this guidance in conjunction with guidance at
 §483.25 F309 Quality of Care, Review of Care and
 Services for a Resident with Dementia. Also
 consider §483.10(d)(2) F154, Right to be informed
 in advance about care and treatment; F155, Right
 to refuse treatment; and §483.10(d)(3) F280, Right
 to participate in planning care and treatment.)
 Antipsychotic medications are only appropriate for
 elderly residents in a small minority of
 circumstances (unless the antipsychotic is
 prescribed to treat previously diagnosed mental
 illness such as schizophrenia or possibly other
 conditions listed above). All antipsychotic
 medications carry a Food and Drug Administration
 (FDA) Black Box Warning. Since June 16, 2008,
 FDA warned healthcare professionals that both
 conventional and atypical antipsychotics are
 associated with an increased risk of death in
 elderly patients treated for dementia-related
 psychosis. Addition information is available at:
 http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/default.htm.

 (A black box warning means that medical studies
 indicate that the drug carries a significant risk of
 serious or even life-threatening adverse effects. It is
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 the strongest warning that the U.S. Food and Drug
 Administration can require a pharmaceutical
 company to place on the labeling of a prescription
 drug, or in the product literature describing it. The
 intent of §483.25(l) is that each resident's entire
 medication regimen be managed and monitored to
 promote or maintain the resident's highest
 practicable mental, physical, and psychosocial
 well-being.)

 Antipsychotic medications may be considered for
 elderly residents with dementia but only after
 medical, physical, functional, psychological,
 emotional psychiatric, social and environmental
 causes have been identified and addressed.
 Antipsychotic medications must be prescribed at
 the lowest possible dosage for the shortest period
 of time and are subject to gradual dose reduction
 and re-review.
 Inadequate Indications:

 Antipsychotic medications in persons with dementia
 should not be used if the only indication is one or more
 of the following:

 wandering

 poor self-care

 restlessness

 impaired memory

 mild anxiety

 insomnia

 inattention or indifference to
 surroundings

 sadness or crying alone that is not
 related to depression or other
 psychiatric disorders

 fidgeting
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 nervousness

 uncooperativeness (e.g. refusal of or
 difficulty receiving care).

 Criteria:

 All of the above highlight conditions/diagnoses where
 antipsychotic medications may possibly be
 appropriate, but diagnoses alone do not warrant the
 use of an antipsychotic unless the following criteria
 are also met:

 o The behavioral symptoms present a danger to
 the resident or others

 AND one or both of the following:

 o The symptoms are identified as being due to
 mania or psychosis (such as: auditory, visual,
 or other hallucinations; delusions, paranoia or
 grandiosity);

 OR

 o Behavioral interventions have been attempted
 and included in the plan of care, except in an
 emergency.

 Additional Criteria:

 Acute Situations/Emergency

 When an antipsychotic medication is being initiated
 or used to treat an emergency situation (i.e., acute
 onset or exacerbation of symptoms or immediate
 threat to health or safety of resident or others)
 related to one or more of the aforementioned
 conditions/diagnoses, the use must meet the above
 criteria and all of the following additional
 requirements:

 1. The acute treatment period is limited to
 seven days or less; AND

 2. A clinician in conjunction with the
 interdisciplinary team must evaluate
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 and document the situation within 7
 days to identify and address any
 contributing and underlying causes of
 the acute condition and verify the
 continuing need for an antipsychotic
 medication.

 3. If the behaviors persist beyond the
 emergency situation, pertinent non-
 pharmacological interventions must be
 attempted, unless clinically
 contraindicated, and documented
 following the resolution of the acute
 psychiatric event.

 Additional Criteria:

 Enduring Conditions

 Antipsychotic medications may be used to treat
 an enduring (i.e., non-acute; chronic or
 prolonged) condition, if the clinical
 condition/diagnosis meets the criteria in
 Section B above.

 In addition, before initiating or increasing an
 antipsychotic medication for enduring
 conditions, the target behavior/s must be
 clearly and specifically identified and
 documented. Monitoring must ensure that the
 behavioral symptoms are:

 1. Not due to a medical condition or
 problem (e.g., pain, fluid or electrolyte
 imbalance, infection, obstipation,
 medication side effect or polypharmacy)
 that can be expected to improve or
 resolve as the underlying condition is
 treated or the offending medication(s) are
 discontinued;

 AND

 2. Not due to environmental stressors
 alone (e.g., alteration in the resident's
 customary location or daily routine,
 unfamiliar care provider, hunger or
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 thirst, excessive noise for that individual,
 inadequate or inappropriate staff
 response), that can be addressed to
 improve the symptoms or maintain
 safety;

 AND

 3. Not due to psychological stressors alone
 (e.g., loneliness, taunting, abuse), anxiety
 or fear stemming from misunderstanding
 related to his or her cognitive
 impairment (e.g., the mistaken belief that
 this is not where he/she lives or inability
 to find his or her clothes or glasses,
 unaddressed sensory deficits) that can be
 expected to improve or resolve as the
 situation is addressed;

 AND

 4. Persistent. In this case, there must be
 clear documented evidence in the
 medical record that the situation or
 condition continues or recurs over time
 (persists) and that other approaches that
 have been attempted have failed to
 adequately address the
 behavioral/psychological symptoms and
 that the resident's quality of life is
 negatively affected by the
 behaviors/symptoms as described above.

 New Admissions:

 Many residents are admitted to a SNF/NF already on
 an antipsychotic medication. The medication may have
 been started in the hospital or the community, which
 can make it challenging for the facility and clinical
 team to identify the indication for use. However, the
 facility is responsible for:

 Preadmission screening for
 mentally ill and intellectually
 disabled individuals, and;

 Obtaining physician's orders for
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 the resident's immediate care.

 This PASRR screening (F285) should provide pertinent
 information including appropriate clinical indications
 for the use of an antipsychotic.

 For residents who do not require PASRR screening
 and are admitted on an antipsychotic medication, the
 facility must re-evaluate the use of the antipsychotic
 medication at the time of admission and/or within two
 weeks of admission (at the time of the initial MDS
 assessment) and consider whether or not the
 medication can be reduced (tapered) or discontinued).

 Dosage:

 When dosing an antipsychotic, the treatment should be
 at the lowest possible dose to improve the target
 symptoms being monitored. It is important to note that
 doses for acute indications (e.g. delirium or acute
 psychosis) may differ from those used for long-term
 treatment of various conditions.

 The table below is provided only as a general guide for
 residents with dementia who have met all of the
 criteria outlined above. Orders for doses greater than
 those that appear in the table warrant closer review for
 adverse effects and risk/benefit evaluation. However,
 also note that in some cases, residents may require
 lower doses than those listed on the table. This is an
 individual, clinical decision based on a number of
 complex factors. Surveyors are strongly advised to
 speak with the practitioner/prescriber and/or
 consultant pharmacist in cases where an antipsychotic
 medication is prescribed for an elderly resident with
 dementia.
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 Daily Dose Thresholds for Antipsychotic
 Medications Used to Treat Residents with BPSD

 Generic Name Maximum Total Dosage

 (mg) per day

 First Generation or Typical Agents

 chlorpromazine 75

 fluphenazine 4

 haloperidol 2

 loxapine 10

 molindone 10

 perphenazine 8

 thioridazine 75 *

 thiothixene 7

 trifluoperazine 8

 Second Generation or Atypical

 aripiprazole 10

 clozapine 50

 olanzapine 5

 quetiapine 150

 risperidone 2

 ziprasidone **

 paliperidone **

 asenapine **

 iloperidone **

 lurasidone **

 * Due to additional black box warnings of QTC
 prolongation, its use should be avoided.

 ** No studies have been conducted or have results
 available to assess the drug's safety or efficacy in
 older adults with dementia.

 Duration:

 Refer to Section V Tapering of a Medication
 Dose/Gradual Dose Reduction (GDR) in the guidance.

 Monitoring:
 When monitoring antipsychotics, it is important to not
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 only evaluate ongoing effectiveness and potential
 adverse consequences, as discussed below, but also to
 evaluate the use of any other psychopharmacological
 medications (e.g. mood stabilizers, benzodiazepines)
 being given to the resident. Specifically, surveyors
 should review the record to determine whether the
 facility can explain the rationale for adding, or
 switching from an antipsychotic to another category
 (or categories) of psychopharmacological agents;
 otherwise, both may potentially be unnecessary
 medications. Surveyors should investigate further in
 cases where more than one antipsychotic agent has
 been prescribed. Surveyors should investigate further
 in cases where more than one antipsychotic agent has
 been prescribed, or where an antipsychotic has been
 discontinued and a medication such as a mood
 stabilizer has been added.

 Effectiveness:

 After initiating or increasing the dose of an
 antipsychotic medication, the behavioral symptoms
 must be reevaluated periodically (at least during
 quarterly care plan review, but often more frequently,
 depending on the resident's response to the
 medication) to determine the effectiveness of the
 antipsychotic and the potential for reducing or
 discontinuing the dose based on target symptoms and
 any adverse effects or functional impairment.

 Potential Adverse Consequences:

 The facility assures that residents are being
 adequately monitored for adverse consequences
 such as:

 General: anticholinergic effects (see Table
 II), falls, excessive sedation

 Cardiovascular: cardiac arrhythmias,
 orthostatic hypotension

 Metabolic: increase in total cholesterol and
 triglycerides, unstable or poorly controlled
 blood sugar, weight gain
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 Neurologic: akathisia, neuroleptic
 malignant syndrome (NMS), parkinsonism,
 tardive dyskinesia, cerebrovascular event
 (e.g., stroke, transient ischemic attack
 (TIA)) in individuals with dementia

 If the antipsychotic medication is identified as
 probably causing or contributing to adverse
 consequences as identified above, the facility must
 act upon this. In some cases, the benefits of
 treatment will still be considered to outweigh the
 risks or burdens of treatment, so the medication
 may be continued; however, the facility and
 prescriber must document the rationale for the
 decision and also that the resident, family member
 or legal representative is aware of and involved in
 the decision to continue the medication.

Anxiolytics

All Anxiolytics Indications

Benzodiazepines, Short- Anxiolytic medications should only be used when:
acting, e.g.,
 o Use is for one of the following indications
 alprazolam as defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical
 estazolam Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth
 lorazepam Edition, Training Revision (DSM-IV TR) or
 oxazepam subsequent editions:
 temazepam

Benzodiazepines, Long a. Generalized anxiety disorder
acting, e.g., b. Panic disorder

 chlordiazepoxide

 clonazepam c. Symptomatic anxiety that occurs
 clorazepate in residents with another diagnosed
 diazepam psychiatric disorder

 flurazepam d. Sleep disorders (See
 quazepam Sedatives/Hypnotics)
buspirone
 e. Acute alcohol or benzodiazepine
Other antidepressants except withdrawal
bupropion
 f. Significant anxiety in response to a

 situational trigger
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 g. Delirium, dementia, and other
 cognitive disorders with associated
 behaviors that:

 Are quantitatively and
 objectively documented;

 Are persistent;

 Are not due to preventable or
 correctable reasons; and

 Constitute clinically significant
 distress or dysfunction to the
 resident or represent a danger to
 the resident or others

 Evidence exists that other possible reasons for the
 individual's distress have been considered; and

 Use results in maintenance or improvement in the
 individual's mental, physical or psychosocial well-
 being (e.g., as reflected on the MDS or other
 assessment tools); or

 There are clinical situations that warrant the use of
 these medications such as:

 a long-acting benzodiazepine is being
 used to withdraw a resident from a short-
 acting benzodiazepine

 used for neuromuscular syndromes (e.g.,
 cerebral palsy, tardive dyskinesia, restless
 leg syndrome or seizure disorders)

 symptom relief in end of life situations

 Dosage

 Dosage is less than, or equal to, the following
 listed total daily doses unless higher doses (as
 evidenced by the resident's response and/or the
 resident's clinical record) are necessary to
 maintain or improve the resident's function

 Total Daily Dose Thresholds for Anxiolytic
 Medications
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 Generic Medication Dosage

 flurazepam 15 mg
 chlordiazepoxide 20 mg
 clorazepate 15 mg
 diazepam 5 mg
 clonazepam 1.5 mg
 quazepam 7.5 mg
 estazolam 0.5 mg
 alprazolam 0.75 mg
 oxazepam 30 mg
 lorazepam 2 mg

diphenhydramine and Duration
hydroxyzine If used to manage behavior, stabilize mood, or
meprobamate
 treat a psychiatric disorder, refer to Section V 
Cardiovascular Tapering of a Medication Dose/Gradual Dose
medications (including Reduction (GDR) in the guidance
antihypertensives) Adverse Consequences
All antiarrhythmics May increase risk of confusion, sedation, and falls
 Indications
 Not appropriate for use as an anxiolytic
 Indications
 Highly addictive and sedating medication; not
 indicated for use in older individuals
 Dosage/Duration
 Those who have used meprobamate for prolonged
 periods may be physically and/or psychologically
 dependent and may need to be withdrawn slowly

 Adverse Consequences
 Cardiac antiarrhythmics can have serious adverse
 Medication Issues and Concerns
amiodarone
 effects in older individuals, including impaired
 mental function, falls, appetite, behavior, and heart
 function

 Indications

 Only approved indication for use is to treat
 documented life-threatening recurrent ventricular
 arrhythmias that do not respond to other
 antiarrhythmic agents or when alternative agents
 are not tolerated

 Common off-label use to treat atrial fibrillation;
 however, literature suggests that in many higher
 risk individuals, alternative approaches to
 managing atrial fibrillation (rate control and
 anticoagulation) are equally effective and less
 toxic*

 * Goldschlager, N., Epstein, A.E., Naccarelli, G.,
 Olshansky, B., & Singh, B. (2000). Practical
 guidelines for clinicians who treat patients with
 amiodarone. Archives of Internal Medicine, 160,
 pp. 1741-1748.

 * Denus, S., Sanoski, C.A., Carlson, J., Opolski, G., &
 Spinler, S.A. (2005). Rate vs rhythm control in
 patients with atrial fibrillation: A meta-analysis.
 Archives of Internal Medicine, 165, pp. 258-262.

 Dosage/Monitoring

 It is critical to carefully consider risks and benefits,
 to use the lowest possible dose for the shortest
 possible duration, to closely monitor individuals
 receiving long-term amiodarone, and to seek and
 identify adverse consequences

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 May cause potentially fatal toxicities, including
 pulmonary toxicity (hypersensitivity pneumonitis
 or interstitial/alveolar pneumonitis) and hepatic
 injury. May cause hypothyroidism, exacerbate
 existing arrhythmia, and worsen heart failure. Can
 also impair mental function and behavior

 May cause clinically significant medication
 Medication Issues and Concerns

disopyramide interactions; for example, with digoxin and
 warfarin
All antihypertensives
 Toxicity increases with higher doses and longer
Alpha blockers, e.g., duration of use
 alfuzosin
 doxazosin Adverse Consequences
 prazosin
 tamsulosin Disopyramide has potent negative inotropic effects
 terazosin (decreased force of heart contraction), which may
 induce heart failure in older individuals, and is also
Angiotensin converting strongly anticholinergic
enzyme (ACE) inhibitors,
 Dosage/Monitoring

 Doses of individual antihypertensives may require
 modification in order to achieve desired effects
 while minimizing adverse consequences,
 especially when multiple antihypertensives are
 prescribed simultaneously

 When discontinuing some antihypertensives (e.g.,
 clonidine, beta blockers), gradual tapering may be
 required to avoid adverse consequences caused by
 abrupt cessation

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 May cause dizziness, postural hypotension,
 fatigue, and an increased risk for falls

 Many other medications may interact with
 antihypertensives to potentiate their effect (e.g.,
 levodopa, nitrates)

 Adverse Consequences

 Doxazosin, prazosin, and terazosin can cause
 significant hypotension and syncope during the
 first few doses. Therefore, these medications
 should be initiated at bedtime with a slow titration
 of dose

 Prazosin can cause more CNS side effects and
 generally should be avoided in older individuals

 Monitoring
 Medication Issues and Concerns
e.g.,
 Monitoring of serum potassium is necessary
 benazepril especially in individuals receiving ACE inhibitors
 captopril with potassium, or potassium sparing diuretics
 enalapril
 fosinopril Adverse Consequences
 lisinopril
 ramipril May cause angioedema (signs and symptoms of
Angiotensin II receptor immediate hypersensitivity), chronic persistent
blockers, e.g., nonproductive cough, or may worsen renal failure
 candesartan
 eprosartan Potential for life-threatening elevation of serum
 irbesartan potassium concentrations when used in
 losartan combination with potassium supplements,
 olmesartan potassium-sparing diuretics including
 valsartan spironolactone
Beta adrenergic blockers,
e.g., Adverse Consequences

Nonselective, e.g., May cause or exacerbate:
 propranolol
 o Bradycardia, especially in individuals
Cardioselective, e.g., receiving other medications that affect
 atenolol cardiac conduction (e.g., calcium channel
 esmolol blockers);
 metoprolol
 nadolol o Dizziness, fatigue; depression,
 timolol bronchospasm (especially, but not
 exclusively, propranolol); or
Calcium channel blockers,
e.g., o Cardiac decompensation that may require
 adjusting dose in residents with acute heart
 nifedipine failure
 isradipine
 amlodipine May mask tachycardia associated with
 nisoldipine symptomatic hypoglycemia

 May have increased effect or may accumulate in
 individuals with hepatic impairment

 Adverse consequences

 May cause clinically significant constipation

 May cause peripheral edema

 Some agents may cause generalized aching,
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 diltiazem headache, muscle pain
 verapamil
 Short acting/immediate release nifedipine
methyldopa increases the risk of cardiac complications and
Including combination should not be used
products such as
methyldopa/ Indications
hydrochlorothiazide
 Alternate treatments for hypertension are preferred
digoxin
 Adverse Consequences

 May cause bradycardia and excessive sedation;
 may exacerbate depression in older individuals

 Indications

 Digoxin is indicated only for the following
 diagnoses: congestive heart failure, atrial
 fibrillation, paroxysmal supraventricular
 tachycardia, or atrial flutter

 Should be used with caution in individuals with
 impaired renal function

 Dosage

 Daily doses in older individuals should ordinarily
 not exceed 0.125 mg/day except when used to
 control atrial arrhythmia and ventricular rate

 Monitoring

 Must be used cautiously in individuals with renal
 failure or fluid and electrolyte imbalance, with
 close monitoring for adverse consequences and
 monitoring, as indicated, of both renal function
 and serum medication concentration ( digoxin
 level )

 Adverse consequences may occur even with
 therapeutic serum concentration, especially in
 older individuals

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 May interact with many other medications,
 possibly resulting in digoxin toxicity or elevated
 serum concentrations of other medications
 Medication Issues and Concerns

Diuretics, e.g., May cause significant bradycardia, especially
 bumetanide when used in individuals taking other medications
 ethacrynic acid affecting cardiac conduction
 furosemide
 hydrochlorothiazide Toxicity may cause fatigue, nausea, vomiting,
 metolazone anorexia, delirium, cardiac arrhythmia
 spironolactone
 torsemide Adverse Consequences
 triamterene
 May cause fluid and electrolyte imbalance
Nitrates, e.g., (hypo/hypernatremia, hypo/hyperkalemia,
 isosorbide dehydration, etc.), hypotension; may precipitate or
 mononitrate exacerbate urinary incontinence, falls
 isosorbide dinitrate
 nitroglycerin Adverse Consequences

Cholesterol lowering May cause headaches, dizziness, lightheadedness,
medications faintness, or symptomatic orthostatic hypotension,
 especially when initially started or when taken in
HMG-CoA Reductase combination with antihypertensive medications
Inhibitors ( statins ), e.g.,
 Monitoring
 atorvastatin
 fluvastatin Liver function monitoring should be performed
 lovastatin consistent with manufacturer's recommendations,
 pravastatin generally accepted as:
 rosuvastatin
 simvastatin o Prior to initiation of therapy, at 12 weeks
 following both initiation of therapy and any
 increase in dose, and periodically (e.g.,
 semiannually) thereafter

 Adverse Consequences

 May impair liver function; liver function tests
 should be monitored as indicated above

 May cause muscle pain, myopathy, and
 rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of skeletal muscle)
 that can precipitate kidney failure especially in
 combination with other cholesterol lowering
 Medication Issues and Concerns
cholestyramine medications.

fibrates, e.g., Interactions
 fenofibrate
 clofibrate May reduce the absorption of other medications
 being taken concurrently. Other medications,
niacin including diuretics, beta-blockers, corticosteroids,
 thyroid hormones, digoxin, valproic acid, NSAIDs,
Cognitive Enhancers sulfonylureas, and warfarin should be administered
Cholinesterase inhibitors, one hour before or four hours after cholestyramine
e.g., administration to avoid this interaction

 donepezil Adverse Consequences
 galantamine
 rivastigmine May cause constipation, dyspepsia, nausea or
 vomiting, abdominal pain

 Monitoring

 Fenofibrate and clofibrate require regular
 monitoring of liver tests as well as evaluating the
 complete blood count (CBC) prior to and after
 initiation

 Monitoring

 Monitor glucose and liver function tests regularly

 Adverse Consequences

 Interferes with glucose control and can aggravate
 diabetes

 Can exacerbate active gallbladder disease and gout

 Flushing is common

 Indications

 As the underlying disorder progresses into
 advanced stages, the continued use of the
 medication should be reevaluated

 Adverse Consequences

 May affect cardiac conduction, especially in
 individuals who already have a cardiac conduction
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 disorder or who are taking other medications that
 affect heart rate

 May cause insomnia, dizziness, nausea, vomiting,
 diarrhea, anorexia, and weight loss

 Should be used with caution in individuals with
 severe asthma or obstructive pulmonary disease

NMDA receptor antagonists, Indications
e.g.,
 As the underlying disorder progresses into
 memantine advanced stages, the continued use of the
 medication should be reevaluated

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause restlessness, distress, dizziness,
 somnolence, hypertension, headache,
 hallucinations, or increased confusion

Cough, cold, and allergy
medications

All cough, cold, allergy Indications/Duration
medications
 Should be used only for a limited duration (less
 than 14 days) unless there is documented evidence
 of enduring symptoms that cannot otherwise be
 alleviated and for which a cause cannot be
 identified and corrected

Antihistamine H-1 blockers, Indications
e.g.,
 H-1 blocker antihistamines have strong
 chlorpheniramine anticholinergic properties and are not considered
 cyproheptadine medications of choice in older individuals
 diphenhydramine
 hydroxyzine If appropriate and effective, topical instead of oral
 meclizine diphenhydramine should be considered for allergic
 promethazine reactions involving the skin

 Dosage/Duration

 Should be used in the smallest possible dosage for
 the shortest possible duration, especially in
 individuals who are susceptible to anticholinergic
 side effects or who are receiving other medications
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 with anticholinergic properties (see Table II)
Oral decongestants, e.g.,
 pseudoephedrine Adverse Consequences

Gastrointestinal May cause excessive sedation, confusion,
medications cognitive impairment, distress, dry mouth,
Phenothiazine-related constipation, urinary retention. These may lead to
antiemetics, e.g., other adverse consequences such as falls

 prochlorperazine Adverse Consequences
 promethazine
 May cause dizziness, nervousness, insomnia,
trimethobenzamide palpitations, urinary retention, elevated blood
 pressure

 Should be used with caution in individuals who
 have insomnia or hypertension

 Indications

 Use with caution in individuals with Parkinson's
 disease, narrow-angle glaucoma, BPH, seizure
 disorder

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause sedation, dizziness, drowsiness,
 postural hypotension, and neuroleptic malignant
 syndrome

 May lower seizure threshold

 Promethazine and prochlorperazine may cause
 anticholinergic effects, such as constipation, dry
 mouth, blurred vision, urinary retention

 May cause extrapyramidal symptoms, including
 medication-induced parkinsonism, acute dystonic
 reactions, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia

 May alter cardiac conduction or induce
 arrhythmias

 Adverse Consequences

 Relatively ineffective antiemetic that can cause
 Medication Issues and Concerns
metoclopramide significant extrapyramidal side effects in addition
 to lethargy, sedation, confusion
Proton pump inhibitors
(PPI), e.g., Exception: May be indicated in patients with
 Parkinson's Disease taking apomorphine
 esomeprazole
 lansoprazole Indications
 omeprazole
 rabeprazole High-risk medication with limited clinical
 indication and limited demonstrated effectiveness*

 Not recommended for first-line treatment of
 gastroesophageal reflux disease, especially in older
 individuals

 When used for diabetic gastroparesis, or other
 indications, relative benefits and risks should be
 assessed and documented

 * Lata, P.F., Pigarelli, D.L. (2003). Chronic
 metoclopramide therapy for diabetic gastroparesis. Ann
 Pharmacotherapy, 37(1), pp. 122-126.

 Adverse Consequences

 Especially in older individuals, metoclopramide
 may cause restlessness, drowsiness, insomnia,
 depression, distress, anorexia, and extrapyramidal
 symptoms, and may lower the seizure threshold

 May increase seizures in individuals with seizure
 disorders or exacerbate symptoms in individuals
 with Parkinson's Disease

 Monitoring

 It is essential to closely monitor at-risk individuals
 for adverse consequences

 Indications

 Indication for use should be based on clinical
 symptoms and/or endoscopic findings

 When used to treat or prevent NSAID-induced
 gastritis or esophagitis, documentation should exist
 that other, less GI-toxic analgesics have been tried
 or were not indicated
 Medication Issues and Concerns
H-2 antagonists, e.g.,
 Duration
 cimetidine
 famotidine If used for greater than 12 weeks, clinical rationale
 ranitidine for continued need and/or documentation should
 support an underlying chronic disease (e.g.,
Glucocorticoids GERD) or risk factors (e.g., chronic NSAID use)
All glucocorticoids (except
topical or inhaled dosage Dosage
forms), e.g.,
 Dosing of histamine-H2 antagonists should be
 dexamethasone based on renal function
 hydrocortisone
 methylprednisolone Interactions
 prednisone
 Cimetidine has higher incidence of medication
Hematinics interactions and should be avoided in older
Erythropoiesis stimulants, individuals
e.g.,
 Adverse Consequences

 May cause or exacerbate headache, nausea,
 vomiting, flatulence, dysphagia, abdominal pain,
 diarrhea, or other gastrointestinal symptoms

 H-2 antagonists may cause confusion

 PPIs may increase the risk of clostridium difficile
 colitis

 Duration/Monitoring

 Necessity for continued use should be
 documented, along with monitoring for and
 management of adverse consequences

 Adverse Consequences

 Intermediate- or longer-term use may cause
 hyperglycemia, psychosis, edema, insomnia,
 hypertension, osteoporosis, mood lability, or
 depression

 Indications

 Assessment of causes and categories of anemia
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 darbepoetin should precede or accompany the use of this
 erythropoietin medication

Iron Monitoring

Laxatives Use must be monitored according to specific
 manufacturer's instructions including blood
 pressure, baseline serum iron or ferritin level, and
 frequent complete blood count (CBCs) to permit
 tapering or discontinuation when
 hemoglobin/hematocrit reaches or exceeds target
 ranges

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause or worsen hypertension

 Excessive dose or duration can lead to
 polycythemia, dangerous thrombotic events
 including myocardial infarction and stroke

 Indications

 Iron therapy is not indicated in anemia of chronic
 disease when iron stores and transferrin levels are
 normal or elevated

 Dosage/Duration

 Clinical rationale should be documented for long-
 term use (greater than two months) or
 administration more than once daily for greater
 than a week, because of side effects and the risk of
 iron accumulation in tissues

 Monitoring

 Baseline serum iron or ferritin level and periodic
 CBC or hematocrit/ hemoglobin

 Adverse Consequences

 May cause constipation, dyspepsia

 Can accumulate in tissues and cause multiple
 complications if given chronically despite normal
 or high iron stores
 Medication Issues and Concerns

All categories including bulk Adverse Consequences
producing laxatives,
hyperosmolar agents, saline May cause flatulence, bloating, abdominal pain
laxatives, stimulant
laxatives, emollient laxatives Bulk forming laxatives and stool softeners may
 cause accumulation of stool and possible bowel
 obstruction, if not used with adequate fluids or in
 individuals with other causes of impaired bowel
 motility

Muscle relaxants

All muscle relaxants, e.g., Indications/Adverse Consequences

 baclofen Most are poorly tolerated by older individuals due
 carisoprodol to anticholinergic side effects (see Table II),
 chlorzoxazone sedation, or weakness
 cyclobenzaprine
 dantrolene Long-term use in individuals with complications
 metaxalone due to multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injuries,
 methocarbamol cerebral palsy, and other select conditions may be
 orphenadrine indicated, although close monitoring is still
 warranted

 Abrupt cessation of some muscle relaxants may
 cause or predispose individuals to seizures or
 hallucinations

 Exception: Periodic use (once every three months) for
 a short duration (not more than seven days) may be
 appropriate, when other interventions or alternative
 medications are not effective or not indicated

Orexigenics (appetite
stimulants)

All appetite stimulants, e.g., Indications

 megestrol acetate Use should be reserved for situations where
 oxandrolone assessment and management of underlying
 dronabinol correctable causes of anorexia and weight loss is
 not feasible or successful, and after evaluating
 potential benefits/risks

 Monitoring

 Appetite and weight should be monitored at least
 monthly and agent should be discontinued if there
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 is no improvement.

 Adverse Consequences

 Megesterol acetate may cause fluid retention,
 adrenal suppression, and symptoms of adrenal
 insufficiency

 Oxandrolone may cause virilization of females and
 feminization of males, excessive sexual
 stimulation, and fluid retention

 Dronabinol may cause tachycardia, orthostatic
 hypotension, dizziness, dysphoria, and impaired
 cognition, which may lead to falls

Osteoporosis medications

Bisphosphonates, e.g., Dosage

 alendronate These medications must be taken according to very
 ibandronate specific directions, including time of day, position,
 risedronate and timing relative to other medications and food

 Monitoring

 Individuals receiving these medications should be
 monitored closely for gastrointestinal
 complications, including esophageal or gastric
 erosion

 Adverse Consequences

 Potential to cause gastrointestinal symptoms
 including dysphagia, esophagitis, gastritis, or
 esophageal and gastric ulcers, especially when
 given to individuals who are also taking oral
 corticosteroids, aspirin or other nonsteroidal anti-
 inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)

Platelet inhibitors

All platelet inhibitors, e.g., Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 dipyridamole May cause thrombocytopenia and increase risk of
 dipyridamole bleeding

 extended-release and Common side effects include headache, dizziness,
 aspirin (as fixed-dose and vomiting
 combination)
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 aspirin See discussion at NSAIDs regarding aspirin
 clopidogrel
 Concurrent use with warfarin or NSAIDs may
 increase risk of bleeding

ticlopidine Indication

 Use may be appropriate in individuals who have
 had a previous stroke or have evidence of stroke
 precursors (i.e., transient ischemic attacks (TIAs)),
 and who cannot tolerate aspirin or another platelet
 inhibitor

 Adverse Consequences

 Associated with more severe side effects and
 considerably more toxic than other platelet
 inhibitors; use should be avoided in older
 individuals

 Most serious side effects involve the hematologic
 system, including potentially life-threatening
 neutropenia

 May also cause nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea

Respiratory medications

theophylline Interactions

 Potentially significant interactions with many other
 medications may occur, especially various
 antibiotics, seizure medications, and cardiac
 medications

 Monitoring/Adverse Consequences

 There should be monitoring for signs and
 symptoms of toxicity, such as arrhythmia, seizure,
 GI upset, diarrhea, nausea/vomiting, abdominal
 pain, nervousness, headache, insomnia, distress,
 dizziness, muscle cramp, tremor

 Periodic monitoring of serum concentrations helps
 identify or verify toxicity

Inhalant medications classes, Adverse Consequences
e.g.,
 Medication Issues and Concerns

Anticholinergic, e.g., Inhaled anticholinergics can cause xerostomia (dry
 mouth)
 ipratropium
 tiotropium Inhaled beta agonists can cause restlessness,
 increased heart rate, and anxiety
Beta 2 agonists, e.g.,

 albuterol Inhaled steroids can cause throat irritation and oral
 formoterol candidiasis, especially if the mouth is not rinsed
 pirbuterol acetate after administration
 salmeterol

Corticosteroids, e.g.,

 beclomethasone
 budesonide
 flunisolide
 fluticasone
 triamcinolone

 acetonide

Miscellaneous, e.g.,

 cromolyn
 nedocromil sodium

Sedatives/Hypnotics (sleep
medications)

All hypnotics Indications

Benzodiazepine hypnotics, Most cases of insomnia are associated with

e.g., underlying conditions (secondary or co-morbid

 estazolam insomnia) such as psychiatric disorders (e.g.,
 flurazepam depression), cardiopulmonary disorders (e.g.,
 quazepam COPD, CHF), urinary frequency, pain, obstructive
 temazepam sleep apnea, and restless leg syndrome. Insomnia
 triazolam may be further described by the duration of
 symptoms

Non-benzodiazepine Before initiating medications to treat insomnia,
hypnotics, e.g., other factors potentially causing insomnia should
 be evaluated, including, for example:
 eszopiclone
 zaleplon

 zolpidem o environment, such as excessive heat, cold,

Melatonin receptor agonists, or noise; lighting

e.g., o inadequate physical activity

 ramelteon o facility routines that may not accommodate
Other hypnotics, e.g., residents' individual needs (e.g., time for
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 chloral hydrate sleep, awakening, toileting, medication
 treatments)
Miscellaneous agents used
for sleep, e.g., o provision of care in a manner that disrupts
 sleep
 sedating
 antidepressants (e.g., o caffeine or medications known to disrupt
 trazodone) sleep

 sedating o pain and discomfort
 antihistamines (e.g.,
 hydroxyzine) o underlying conditions (secondary or co-
 morbid insomnia) such as psychiatric
 disorders (e.g., depression),
 cardiopulmonary disorders (e.g., COPD,
 CHF), urinary frequency, pain, obstructive
 sleep apnea, and restless leg syndrome

 It is expected that interventions (such as sleep
 hygiene approaches, individualizing the sleep and
 wake times to accommodate the person's wishes
 and prior customary routine, and maximizing
 treatment of any underlying conditions) are
 implemented to address the causative factor(s)

 These guidelines apply to any medication that is
 being used to treat insomnia. Initiation of
 medications to induce or maintain sleep should be
 preceded or accompanied by other interventions to
 try to improve sleep. All sleep medications should
 be used in accordance with approved product
 labeling; for example, timing and frequency of
 administration relative to anticipated waking time

 The use of sedating medications for individuals
 with diagnosed sleep apnea requires careful
 assessment, documented clinical rationale, and
 close monitoring

 Exceptions:

 Use of a single dose sedative for dental or
 medical procedures

 During initiation of treatment for depression,
 pain or other comorbid condition(s), short-term
 use of a sleep medication may be necessary
 until symptoms improve or the underlying
 Medication Issues and Concerns
 aggravating factor can be identified and/or
Barbiturates, e.g., effectively treated
 amobarbital
 butabarbital Dosage
 pentobarbital
 secobarbital Daily Dose Thresholds For Sedative-Hypnotic
 Medications

 Generic Medication Oral Dosage

 chloral hydrate* 500 mg

 diphenhydramine* 25 mg

 estazolam 0.5 mg

 eszopiclone 1 mg

 flurazepam* 15 mg

 hydroxyzine* 50 mg

 lorazepam 1 mg

 oxazepam 15 mg

 quazepam* 7.5 mg

 ramelteon 8 mg

 temazepam 15 mg

 triazolam* 0.125 mg

 zaleplon 5 mg

 zolpidem IR 5 mg

 zolpidem CR 6.25 mg

 * These medications are not considered medications

 of choice for the management of insomnia,

 especially in older individuals.

 Reference:

 www.ahrq.gov/downloads/pub/evidence/pdf/insom
 nia/insomnia.pdf

 Duration

 If used to induce sleep or treat a sleep disorder,
 refer to Section V Tapering of a Medication
 Dose/Gradual Dose Reduction (GDR) in the
 guidance

 NOTE: Refers to barbiturates used to induce
 sleep or treat anxiety disorder

 Indications

 Barbiturates should not be initiated in any dose for
 Medication Issues and Concerns

 phenobarbital any individuals to treat anxiety or insomnia; as
 amobarbital- they are highly addictive and cause numerous
 adverse effects, especially in older individuals
 secobarbital
 barbiturates with Exception: These guidelines do not apply to
 the use of phenobarbital to treat seizure
 other medications disorders (see Anticonvulsant section)

 Interactions/Adverse Consequences

 May increase the metabolism of many medications
 (e.g., anticonvulants, antipsychotics), which may
 lead to decreased effectiveness and
 subsequent worsening of symptoms or decreased
 control of underlying illness

 May cause hypotension, dizziness,
 lightheadedness, hangover effect,
 drowsiness, confusion, mental depression, unusual
 excitement, nervousness, headache, insomnia,
 nightmares, and hallucinations

 May increase the risk for falls

Thyroid medications

All thyroid medications, e.g., Interactions

 levothyroxine Many clinically significant medication interactions
 triiodothryonine have been identified; therefore, re-evaluation of
 medication doses is indicated

 Dosage

 Initiation of thyroid supplementation should occur
 at low doses and be increased gradually to avoid
 precipitating cardiac failure or adrenal crisis

 Monitoring

 Assessment of thyroid function (e.g., TSH, serum
 T4 or T3) should occur prior to initiation and
 periodically thereafter, including when new signs
 and symptoms of hypo- or hyperthyroidism are
 present

Urinary incontinence
medications
 Medication Issues and Concerns

Urinary Incontinence Types Indications
and Agents, e.g.,
 Before or soon after initiating medication(s) to
Urge incontinence: manage urinary incontinence, assessment of
 underlying causes and identification of the
 Anticholinergics, e.g., type/category of urinary incontinence needs to be
 documented
 darifenacin
 oxybutynin These medications have specific, limited
 tolterodine indications based on the cause and type/category of
 trospium incontinence

 Tricyclic antidepressants, Monitoring
 e.g.,
 Ongoing assessments of the effects of the
 desipramine medication on the individual's urinary
 imipramine incontinence as well as lower urinary tract
 symptoms should be done periodically
Stress incontinence:
 Adverse Consequences
 Alpha adrenergic agonists,
 e.g., Anticholinergics and TCAs may cause
 anticholinergic effects (see Table II)
 pseudoephedrine
 Estrogen Replacement Agents: oral agents may
Mixed incontinence, e.g., cause systemic side effects and increased risks
 (e.g., deep venous thrombosis, breast cancer);
 estrogen replacement therefore, topical agents may be preferred
 agents
 Bethanechol may cause hypotension, increased
 imipramine sweating and salivation, headache, cramps,
 diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, and worsening of
Overflow incontinence, e.g., asthma

 alpha adrenergic
 antagonists (see
 antihypertensives)

 bethanechol chloride

 TABLE II

 MEDICATIONS WITH SIGNIFICANT ANTICHOLINERGIC PROPERTIES

Table II lists common medications with significant anticholinergic properties and
potential adverse consequences, but is not all-inclusive. Any of the following signs and
symptoms may be caused by any of the medications in the lists below, alone or in
combination, as well as by other medications not listed here that have anticholinergic
properties.

This table is provided because: 1) Medications in many categories have anticholinergic
properties; 2) The use of multiple medications with such properties may be particularly
 problematic because of the cumulative effects; and 3) Anticholinergic side effects are
particularly common and problematic, especially in the older individual11, 12.

 Examples of Medications with Anticholinergic Properties

 ANTIHISTAMINES (H-1 BLOCKERS) CARDIOVASCULAR MEDICATIONS

chlorpheniramine cyproheptadine furosemide digoxin
diphenhydramine hydroxyzine nifedipine disopyramide

ANTIDEPRESSANTS GASTROINTESTINAL
 MEDICATIONS
amoxapine amitriptyline
 Antidiarrheal Medications
clomipramine desipramine diphenoxylate atropine

doxepin imipramine Antispasmodic Medications
 belladonna clidinium
nortriptyline protriptyline chlordiazepoxide dicyclomine
 hyoscyamine propantheline
paroxetine
 Antiulcer Medications
 cimetidine ranitidine

ANTIPARKINSON MEDICATIONS ANTIPSYCHOTIC MEDICATIONS

amantadine benztropine chlorpromazine clozapine
biperiden trihexyphenidyl
 olanzapine thioridazine

MUSCLE RELAXANTS URINARY INCONTINENCE

cyclobenzaprine dantrolene oxybutynin probantheline
orphenadrine solifenacin tolterodine
 trospium

ANTIVERTIGO MEDICATIONS PHENOTHIAZINE ANTIEMETICS
meclizine scopolamine prochlorperazine promethazine

Potential Adverse Consequences of Medications with Anticholinergic Properties

Blood pressure, increased Breathing difficulty, changes
Clumsiness or unsteadiness Convulsions
 Digestive system changes, e.g., Mental status/behavior changes, e.g.,
 Bloating Distress, excitement, nervousness
 Bowel motility, decreased Attention, impaired
 Constipation Cognitive decline
 Ileus, paralytic/adynamic Confusion/disorientation
 Nausea or vomiting Hallucinations
 Swallowing difficulty with dry mouth Memory loss
 Restlessness or irritability
Delirium
Drowsiness Dizziness
Headache Fever
Lethargy, fatigue Heart rate, increased
Muscle weakness, severe Mucous membrane dryness: mouth, nose
Skin, changes
 Speech, slurring
 Dryness Sweating, decreased
 Flushing Warmth, excessive Vision impairment, changes in acuity
Urinary retention or difficulty Blurring Glaucoma, worsening
 Eye pain Light sensitivity

 ENDNOTES

11 Tune, L. Carr, S., Hoag, E. & Cooper, T. (1992). Anticholinergic effects of drugs commonly
 prescribed for the elderly: Potential means for assessing risk of delirium. American
 Journal of Psychiatry, 149, pp. 1393-1394.

12 Tune, L.E. (2000). Serum anticholinergic activity levels and delirium in the elderly. Seminars
 in Clinical Neuropsychiatry, 5, pp. 149-153.
 INVESTIGATIVE PROTOCOL
 UNNECESSARY MEDICATIONS - MEDICATION REGIMEN REVIEW

Because they are closely related, the investigations of the requirements for medication
regimen review and the review for unnecessary medications have been merged.

Objectives

 To determine whether each resident receives or is provided:

 o Only those medications that are clinically indicated in the dose and for the
 duration to meet his or her assessed needs;

 o Non-pharmacological approaches when clinically indicated, in an effort to
 reduce the need for or the dose of a medication; and

 o Gradual dose reduction attempts for antipsychotics (unless clinically
 contraindicated) and tapering of other medications, when clinically
 indicated, in an effort to discontinue the use or reduce the dose of the
 medication.

 To determine if the facility in collaboration with the prescriber:

 o Identifies the parameters for monitoring medication(s) or medication
 combinations (including antipsychotics) that pose a risk for adverse
 consequences; and for monitoring the effectiveness of medications
 (including a comparison with therapeutic goals); and

 o Recognizes and evaluates the onset or worsening of signs or symptoms, or
 a change in condition to determine whether these potentially may be
 related to the medication regimen; and follows-up as necessary upon
 identifying adverse consequences.

 To determine if the pharmacist:

 o Performed the monthly medication regimen review, and identified any
 existing irregularities regarding indications for use, dose, duration, and the
 potential for, or the existence of adverse consequences or other
 irregularities; and

 o Reported any identified irregularities to the attending physician and
 director of nursing.

 To determine whether the facility and/or practitioner acted on the report of any
 irregularity.
 Use

Use this protocol during every initial and standard survey. In addition, this protocol may
be used on revisits or abbreviated survey (complaint investigation) as necessary.

NOTE: This review is not intended to direct medication therapy. However,
 surveyors are expected to review factors related to the implementation,
 use, and monitoring of medications.

 The surveyor is not expected to prove that an adverse consequence was
 directly caused by a medication or combination of medications, but rather
 that there was a failure in the care process related to considering and acting
 upon such possibilities.

 If during the course of this review, the surveyor needs to contact the
 attending physician regarding questions related to the medication regimen,
 it is recommended that the facility's staff have the opportunity to provide
 the necessary information about the resident and the concerns to the
 physician for his/her review prior to responding to the surveyor's inquiries.

Procedures

Review the medications (prescription, over-the-counter medications, and nutritional
supplements such as herbal products) currently ordered and/or discontinued by the
prescriber at least back to the most recent signed recapitulation/reorder of all medications.
Obtain a copy of the current orders if necessary. Gather information regarding the
resident's mental, physical, functional, and psychosocial status and the medication-related
therapeutic goals identified in the care plan as the basis for further review.

1. Observation and Record Review

 Use the table below to guide observations, record review, and interviews with the
 resident or representative and relevant staff. Observe whether the medication-related
 interventions are consistently implemented over time and across various shifts. Note
 deviations from the care plan as well as potential medication-related adverse
 consequences. Verify observations by gathering additional information; for example,
 additional record reviews and/or interviews with the resident or representative,
 relevant staff, and practitioners.

 SYMPTOMS, SIGNS, AND CONDITIONS REVIEW FOR HOW FACILITY
 THAT MAY BE ASSOCIATED WITH MANAGED MEDICATIONS FOR
 MEDICATIONS
 THE RESIDENT
Determine if the resident has been transferred to
 Review the record (including the care
 SYMPTOMS, SIGNS, AND CONDITIONS REVIEW FOR HOW FACILITY
 THAT MAY BE ASSOCIATED WITH MANAGED MEDICATIONS FOR
 MEDICATIONS
 THE RESIDENT
acute care since the last survey and/or has
recently (e.g., the previous 3 months) plan, comprehensive assessment, and
experienced a change in condition or currently other parts of the record as appropriate)
has signs and symptoms, such as: to determine whether it reflects the
 following elements related to
 Anorexia and/or unplanned weight loss, medication management for the
 or weight gain resident:

 Behavioral changes, unusual behavior Clinical indications for use of
 patterns (including increased distressed the medication
 behavior)
 Consideration of non-
 Bleeding or bruising, spontaneous or pharmacological interventions
 unexplained
 Dose, including excessive dose
 Bowel dysfunction including diarrhea, and duplicate therapy
 constipation and impaction
 Duration, including excessive
 Dehydration, fluid/electrolyte imbalance duration
 Depression, mood disturbance
 Dysphagia, swallowing difficulty Consideration of potential for
 Falls, dizziness, or evidence of impaired tapering/GDR or rationale for
 clinical contraindication
 coordination
 Gastrointestinal bleeding Monitoring for and reporting of:
 Headaches, muscle pain, generalized or o Response to medications
 and progress toward
 nonspecific aching or pain therapeutic goals
 Mental status changes, (e.g., new or o Emergence of
 medication-related
 worsening confusion, new cognitive adverse consequences
 decline, worsening of dementia
 (including delirium)) Adverse consequences, if
 Rash, pruritus present and potentially
 Respiratory difficulty or changes medication-related, note if there
 Sedation (excessive), insomnia, or sleep was:
 disturbance o Recognition, evaluation,
 Seizure activity reporting, and
 Urinary retention or incontinence management by the
 facility
If observations or record review indicate o Physician action
symptoms or changes in condition that may be regarding potential
related to medications (refer to Tables I and II, medication-related
supplemented with current medication adverse consequences
references), determine whether the facility
considered medications as a potential cause of
the change or symptom.
 2. Interview

 Interview the resident and or family/responsible party, to the extent possible, to
 determine:

 His/her participation in care planning and decision making, including
 discussions of the goals related to the use of medications;

 Whether approaches other than medications (as indicated) were discussed; and

 His/her evaluation of the results of the medication therapy and other
 approaches (such as decreasing symptoms of pain, improving functional
 ability).

 If during the review, you identify concerns about the lack of indication for use; the
 dose or duration of a medication; lack of monitoring; failure to implement the care
 plan; or condition changes or functional decline that may be related to the medication
 regimen, interview knowledgeable staff to determine:

 Whether the resident has experienced any changes in the functioning or
 amount of activity that he/she is able to do;

 The clinical rationale for the use of the medication, dose or duration and how
 the interdisciplinary team is monitoring the resident's response to the
 medication;

 What process is in place to assure the care plan interventions for medication
 use are being implemented;

 Whether they were aware that the signs and symptoms may be adverse
 consequences related to the medication regimen;

 Whether the staff had contacted the attending physician to discuss the signs
 and symptoms and the current medication regimen;

 Whether and how the physician responded when informed of suspected
 adverse medication consequences; and

 Whether the pharmacist performed a medication regimen review and
 identified related signs and symptoms, or the staff informed the pharmacist of
 them if they occurred after the last pharmacist visit.

 Interview the physician, as appropriate, to determine:
 Whether staff notified him/her of potential medication-related issues and
 concerns;

 His/her assessment of the significance of medication-related issues and
 concerns; and

 Rationale for his/her management of the resident's medications and/or
 medication-related issues or concerns.

3. Medication Regimen Review (MRR)

 Review for compliance with the MRR requirements at F428. Determine:

 If the pharmacist had identified and reported to the director of nursing and
 attending physician any irregularities with the medication regimen such as:

 o The emergence or existence of clinically significant adverse
 consequences;

 o Excess dose or duration, lack of monitoring, lack of indication for use,
 lack of GDR (as indicated) or behavioral interventions for residents
 receiving antipsychotics, medication interactions potentially affecting
 the medication's effectiveness; and

 Whether the attending physician and the director of nursing acted on any
 irregularities identified in the report. The responses from the attending
 physician could include the following:

 o Changed the medication regimen in response to the concern raised in
 the report (or after additional review of the situation);

 o Provided a clinically pertinent rationale that is relevant to that specific
 resident's signs and symptoms, prognosis, test results, etc.,
 documenting or indicating why the benefit of the medication(s) or
 dose(s) outweighed the risks of the adverse consequence;

 o Provided a clinically pertinent rationale for why any gradual dose
 reduction (for antipsychotic medications) and/or tapering (for other
 medications) is contraindicated, even for a trial period; or

 o Provided a clinically pertinent rationale for why a particular
 medication, dose, or duration is appropriate for a resident despite its
 risks (for example, the resident has had recurrent seizures unless
 he/she receives anticonvulsant dosing that exceeds the usual
 recommended serum medication concentration level or therapeutic
 range, and the attending physician and facility have been monitoring
for and addressing adverse consequences).

 If the pharmacist identified a suspected adverse consequence, and the
 attending physician did not respond, determine if staff followed up with
 the attending physician.

NOTE: If the staff and pharmacist identify a medication that they
 believe may be causing a serious adverse consequence or a risk
 of clinically significant adverse consequences for the resident,
 and the attending physician did not address the risks or harm to
 the resident, determine what steps staff took; e.g., contacting the
 medical director to review the situation and address the issue
 with the attending physician, as necessary. See guidance at 42
 CFR 483.75(i) Medical Director (F501) for additional guidance.

If problems are identified with the MRR, interview the pharmacist, as indicated, to
determine:

 How he/she conducts the MRR, including the frequency and extent of the
 medication review and under what circumstances a review might be conducted
 more often than monthly;

 How the facility communicates with him/her regarding medication-related
 issues in specific residents; and

 How he/she approaches the MRR process for short stay residents.

DETERMINATION OF COMPLIANCE (Task 6, Appendix P)

Synopsis of Regulation (F329)

The unnecessary medication requirement has six aspects in order to assure that
medication therapy is appropriate for the individual resident. The facility must assure that
medication therapy (including antipsychotic agents) is based upon:

 An adequate indication for use;

 Use of the appropriate dose;

 Provision of behavioral interventions and gradual dose reduction for individuals
 receiving antipsychotics (unless clinically contraindicated) in an effort to reduce
 or discontinue the medication;

 Use for the appropriate duration;
 Adequate monitoring to determine whether therapeutic goals are being met and to
 detect the emergence or presence of adverse consequences; and

 Reduction of dose or discontinuation of the medication in the presence of adverse
 consequences, as indicated.

Criteria for Compliance

Compliance with 42 CFR 483.25(l), F329, Unnecessary Medications

For a resident who has been, or is, receiving medication(s), the facility is in compliance if
they, in collaboration with the prescriber:

 Assessed the resident to ascertain, to the extent possible, the causes of the
 condition or symptoms requiring treatment, including recognizing, evaluating, and
 determining whether the condition or symptoms may have reflected an adverse
 medication consequence;

 Based on the assessment, determined that medication therapy was indicated and
 identified the therapeutic goals for the medication;

 Utilized only those medications in appropriate doses for the appropriate duration,
 which are clinically necessary to treat the resident's assessed condition(s);

 Implemented a gradual dose reduction and behavioral interventions for each
 resident receiving antipsychotic medications unless clinically contraindicated;

 Monitored the resident for progress towards the therapeutic goal(s) and for the
 emergence or presence of adverse consequences, as indicated by the resident's
 condition and the medication(s); and

 Adjusted or discontinued the dose of a medication in response to adverse
 consequences, unless clinically contraindicated.

If not, cite F329.

Noncompliance for F329

After completing the investigation, determine whether or not compliance with the
regulation exists. Noncompliance for F329 may include:

 Inadequate Indications for Use Examples of noncompliance related to a
 medication being used without adequate indications include, but are not limited
 to:
 o Failure to document a clinical reason or demonstrate a clinically pertinent
 rationale, verbally or in writing, for using medication(s) for a specific
 resident.

 o Prescribing or administering a medication despite an allergy to that
 medication, or without clarifying whether a true allergy existed as opposed
 to other reactions (e.g., idiosyncratic reaction or other side effect).

 o Failure to provide a clear clinical rationale for continuing a medication
 that may be causing an adverse consequence.

 o Initiation of an antipsychotic medication to manage distressed behavior
 without considering a possible underlying medical cause (e.g., UTI,
 congestive heart failure)or environmental or psychosocial stressor.

 o Initiation of a medication presenting clinically significant risks without
 considering relative risks and benefits or potentially lower risk
 medications.

 o Concomitant use of two or more medications in the same pharmacological
 class without a clinically pertinent explanation.

 Inadequate Monitoring Examples of noncompliance related to inadequate
 monitoring include, but are not limited to:

 o Failure to monitor the responses to or effects of a medication and failure to
 respond when monitoring indicates a lack of progress toward the
 therapeutic goal (e.g., relief of pain or normalization of thyroid function)
 or the emergence of an adverse consequence.

 o Failure to monitor a medication consistent with the current standard of
 practice or manufacturer's guidelines.

 o Failure to carry out the monitoring that was ordered or failure to monitor
 for potential clinically significant adverse consequences. For example, use
 of warfarin in conjunction with:

 Inadequate or absent monitoring of PT/INR during treatment;
 and/or

 Failure to recognize and monitor the increased risk of adverse
 consequences when the resident is receiving other medications that
 are known to increase the risk of bleeding or to interact with
 warfarin and increase PT/INR.
 Excessive Dose (including duplicate therapy) Examples of noncompliance related to
excessive dose include, but are not limited to:

 o Giving a total amount of any medication at one time or over a period of
 time that exceeds the amount recommended by the manufacturer's
 recommendations, clinical practice guidelines, evidence-based studies
 from medical/pharmacy journals, or standards of practice for a resident's
 age and condition, without a documented clinically pertinent rationale.

 o Failure to consider periodically the continued necessity of the dose or the
 possibility of tapering a medication.

 o Failure to provide and/or document a clinical rationale for using multiple
 medications from the same pharmacological class.

 Excessive Duration Examples of noncompliance related to excessive duration
 include, but are not limited to:

 o Continuation beyond the manufacturer's recommended time frames, the
 stop date or duration indicated on the medication order, facility-established
 stop order policies, or clinical practice guidelines, evidence-based studies
 from medical/pharmacy journals, or current standards of practice, without
 documented clinical justification.

 o Continuation of a medication after the desired therapeutic goal has been
 achieved without evaluating whether the medication can offer any
 additional benefit, for example:

 Use of an antibiotic beyond the recommended clinical guidelines or
 the facility policy without adequate reassessment of the resident
 and determination of continuing need.

 Failure to re-evaluate the rationale for continuing antipsychotic
 medication initiated in an emergency after the acute phase has
 stabilized.

 Adverse Consequences Examples of noncompliance related to adverse
 consequences include, but are not limited to:

 o Failure to act upon (i.e., discontinue a medication or reduce the dose or
 provide clinical justification for why the benefit outweighs the adverse
 consequences) a report of the risk for or presence of clinically significant
 adverse consequence(s);
 o Failure to respond to actual or potentially clinically significant adverse
 consequences related to the use of warfarin when the PT/INR exceeds the
 target goal.

 Antipsychotic Medications without Gradual Dose Reduction and Behavioral
 Interventions unless Clinically Contraindicated Examples of noncompliance
 related to this requirement include, but are not limited to:

 o Failure to attempt GDR in the absence of identified and documented
 clinical contraindications.

 o Prolonged or indefinite antipsychotic use without attempting gradual dose
 reductions.

 o Failure to implement behavioral interventions to enable attempts to reduce
 or discontinue an antipsychotic medication.

Potential Tags for Additional Investigation

If noncompliance with §483.25(l) has been identified, then concerns with additional
requirements may also have been identified. The surveyor is cautioned to investigate
these related additional requirements before determining whether noncompliance with the
additional requirements may be present. Examples of some of the related requirements
that may be considered when noncompliance has been identified include the following:

 42 CFR 483.10(b)(11), F157, Notification of Changes

 o Review whether the facility contacted the attending physician regarding a
 significant change in the resident's condition in relation to a potential
 adverse consequence of a medication, or if the resident has not responded
 to medication therapy as anticipated and/or indicated.

 42 CFR 483.10 (b)(3) and (4), F154, F155, Notice of Rights and Services and
 (d)(2) Free Choice

 o Determine whether the resident was advised of her/his medical condition
 and therapy and was informed about her/his treatment including
 medications and the right to refuse treatments.

 42 CFR 483.20(b), F272, Comprehensive Assessments

 o Review whether the facility's initial and periodic comprehensive
 assessments include an assessment of the resident's medication regimen.

 42 CFR 483.20(k)(1) and (2), F279, F280, Comprehensive Care Plans
 o Review whether the resident's comprehensive care plan: a) was based on
 the assessment of the resident's conditions, risks, needs, and behavior; b)
 was consistent with the resident's therapeutic goals; (c) considered the
 need to monitor for effectiveness based on those therapeutic goals and for
 the emergence or presence of adverse consequences; and (d) was revised
 as needed to address medication-related issues.

 42 CFR 483.25(a)(1), F310, Decline in ADL

 o Review whether the facility had identified, evaluated, and responded to a
 new or rapidly progressive decline in function, development or worsening
 of movement disorders, increased fatigue and activity intolerance that
 affected the resident's ADL ability in relation to potential medication
 adverse consequences.

 42 CFR 483.25(d), F315, Urinary Incontinence

 o Review whether the facility had identified, evaluated, and responded to a
 change in urinary function or continence status in relation to potential
 medication adverse consequences.

 42 CFR 483.25(f)(1)&(2), F319, F320, Mental and Psychosocial Functioning

 o Review whether the facility had identified, evaluated, and responded to a
 change in behavior and/or psychosocial changes, including depression or
 other mood disturbance, distress, restlessness, increasing confusion, or
 delirium in relation to potential medication adverse consequences.

 42 CFR 483.25(i)(1), F325, Nutritional Parameters

 o Review if the facility had identified, evaluated, and responded to a change
 in nutritional parameters, anorexia or unplanned weight loss, dysphagia,
 and/or swallowing disorders in relation to potential medication adverse
 consequences.

 42 CFR 483.25(j), F327, Hydration

 o Review if the facility had identified, evaluated, and responded to a change
 in hydration or fluid or electrolyte balance (for example, high or low
 sodium or potassium) in relation to potential medication adverse
 consequences.

 42 CFR 483.40(a), F385, Physician Supervision
 o Review if the attending physician supervised the resident's medical
 treatment, including assessing the resident's condition and medications,
 identifying the clinical rationale, and monitoring for and addressing
 adverse consequences.

 42 CFR 483.40(b), F386, Physician Visits

 o Review if the attending physician or designee reviewed the resident's total
 program of care and wrote, signed, and dated progress notes covering
 pertinent aspects of the medication regimen and related issues.

 42 CFR 483.60(c), F428, Medication Regimen Review

 o Review whether the licensed pharmacist has provided consultation
 regarding the integrity of medication-related records (e.g., MAR, physician
 order sheets, telephone orders), and potential or actual medication
 irregularities.

 42 CFR 483.75(i), F501, Medical Director

 o Review whether the medical director, when requested by the facility,
 interacted with the attending physician regarding a failure to respond or an
 inadequate response to identified or reported potential medication
 irregularities and adverse consequences; and whether the medical director
 collaborated with the facility to help develop, implement, and evaluate
 policies and procedures for the safe and effective use of medications in the
 care of residents.

IV. DEFICIENCY CATEGORIZATION (Part IV, Appendix P)

Once the team has completed its investigation, analyzed the data, reviewed the regulatory
requirement, and identified any deficient practice(s) that demonstrate that noncompliance
with the regulation at F329 exists, the team must determine the severity of each
deficiency, based on the resultant harm or potential for harm to the resident.

The key elements for severity determination for F329 are as follows:

1. Presence of potential or actual harm/negative outcome(s) due to a failure related
 to unnecessary medications.

 Examples of actual or potential harm/negative outcomes for F329 may include, but
 are not limited to:

 Potential for life-threatening toxicity from excessive dose or lack of indication for
 the use of digoxin.
 Complications (such as diarrhea with life threatening fluid loss, nephrotoxicity,
 hearing loss, or anaphylactic shock) from use of an antibiotic when no clear
 indication for use has been established or response to the use has not been
 monitored.

 Fractures or falls with injury resulting from the continuing use of medications
 (e.g., hypnotics/sedatives, antipsychotics, antidepressants, antihypertensives) in
 the presence of predisposing risks or adverse consequences such as persistent
 dizziness or recurrent falling without intervening or reevaluating the need for and
 dose of the medication believed to be the cause of the gait instability.

2. Degree of potential or actual harm/negative outcome(s) due to a failure related to
 unnecessary medications.

Identify how the facility practices caused, resulted in, allowed, or contributed to the
actual or potential for harm:

 If harm has occurred, determine if the harm is at the level of serious injury,
 impairment, death, compromise, or discomfort; or

 If harm has not yet occurred, determine how likely is the potential for serious
 injury, impairment, death, compromise, or discomfort to occur to the resident.

3. The immediacy of correction required.

Determine whether the noncompliance requires immediate correction in order to
prevent serious injury, harm, impairment, or death to one or more residents.

The survey team must evaluate the harm or potential for harm based upon the following
levels of severity for tag F329. First, the team must rule out whether Severity Level 4,
Immediate Jeopardy to a resident's health or safety, exists by evaluating the deficient
practice in relation to immediacy, culpability, and severity. (Follow the guidance in
Appendix Q.)

NOTE: The death or transfer of a resident who was harmed or injured as a result of
 facility noncompliance does not remove a finding of immediate jeopardy.
 The facility is required to implement specific actions to remove the
 jeopardy and correct the noncompliance which allowed or caused the
 immediate jeopardy.

Severity Level 4 Considerations: Immediate Jeopardy to Resident Health or Safety

Immediate Jeopardy is a situation in which the facility's noncompliance with one or more
requirements of participation:
 Has allowed, caused, or resulted in, or is likely to allow, cause, or result in serious
 injury, harm, impairment, or death to a resident; and

 Requires immediate correction, as the facility either created the situation or
 allowed the situation to continue by failing to implement preventative or
 corrective measures.

Examples may include, but are not limited to:

 Failure to assess or respond appropriately for a resident taking warfarin who had
 an elevated INR of 9 or greater with or without bleeding, or the elevated INR
 persisted without assessment/follow-up.

 Failure to monitor PT/INR for a resident on anticoagulant therapy in accordance
 with current standards of practice and to recognize and/or respond to a life
 threatening adverse consequence related to anticoagulation.

 Failure to recognize developing serotonin syndrome (e.g., confusion, motor
 restlessness, tremor) in a resident receiving a SSRI, leading to the addition
 of medications with additive serotonin effect or medication to suppress the
 symptoms.

 Failure to recognize and respond to signs and symptoms of neuroleptic malignant
 syndrome (NMS).

 In the presence of gastrointestinal bleeding, the failure to recognize medication
 therapies (such as NSAIDs or COX-2 inhibitors, bisphosphonates) as potentially
 causing or contributing to the gastrointestinal bleed, resulting in the continued
 administration of the medication, until the resident required hospitalization for
 severe bleeding.

 NOTE: If immediate jeopardy has been ruled out based upon the evidence, then
 evaluate whether actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy exists at
 Severity Level 3.

Severity Level 3 Considerations: Actual Harm that is Not Immediate Jeopardy

Level 3 indicates noncompliance that resulted in actual harm, and may include, but is not
limited to, clinical compromise, decline, or the resident's inability to maintain and/or
reach his/her highest practicable well-being. Examples may include, but are not limited
to:

 Facility failure to take appropriate action (e.g., suspending administration of the
 anticoagulant) in response to an INR greater than 4 and less than 9 for a resident
 who is receiving warfarin until spontaneous bruising or frank bleeding occurs,
 resulting in the need to transfuse or hospitalize the resident.

 Facility failure to evaluate the medication regimen as a potential cause of seizure
 activity resulting in the addition of anticonvulsants to treat recent-onset seizures
 that can be adverse consequences of medications.

 Facility failure to implement a GDR that was not contraindicated in a resident
 receiving prolonged, continuous antipsychotic therapy resulting in functional
 decline, somnolence, lethargy, tremors, increased falling, or impaired ambulation.

NOTE: If Severity Level 3 (actual harm that is not immediate jeopardy) has
 been ruled out based upon the evidence, then evaluate as to whether
 Severity Level 2 (no actual harm with the potential for more than
 minimal harm) exists.

Severity Level 2 Considerations: No Actual Harm with Potential for More Than
Minimal Harm that is Not Immediate Jeopardy

Level 2 indicates noncompliance that resulted in a resident outcome of no more than
minimal discomfort and/or has the potential to compromise the resident's ability to
maintain or reach his or her highest practicable level of well-being. The potential exists
for greater harm to occur if interventions are not provided. Examples may include, but
are not limited to:

 Facility failure to take appropriate action (e.g., change or suspend administration
 of the warfarin dose) for a resident who has an INR greater than 4 and less than 9
 without any bleeding.

 Failure to monitor INR for a resident who has been stabilized on warfarin, but
 who has not had bleeding.

 Facility failure to identify and act upon minor symptoms of allergic response to
 medications, such as a rash.

 Facility failure to monitor for response to therapy or for the emergence or
 presence of adverse consequences before the resident has experienced an adverse
 consequence or decline in function (e.g., monitoring periodically for symptoms of
 behavioral distress in someone receiving psychopharmacological medication;
 monitoring thyroid function at least annually in an individual receiving thyroid
 hormone replacement; and monitoring hydration status and basic metabolic profile
 for a resident receiving diuretics or ACE inhibitors, who had a change in mental
 status after the onset of diarrhea).
 Severity Level 1: No Actual Harm with Potential for Minimal Harm

The failure of the facility to provide appropriate care and services to manage the
resident's medication regimen to avoid unnecessary medications and minimize negative
outcome places residents at risk for more than minimal harm. Therefore, Severity Level 1
does not apply for this regulatory requirement.

F329 - Additional Example under Investigative Protocol

The following example illustrates the differences between compliance, and non-
compliance at severity levels 4, 3 and 2 related to the use of antipsychotic medication
when circumstances and outcomes change:

F329 Compliance Example

An 89 year old male was re-admitted to the nursing home from the hospital. Upon
readmission, diagnoses included pneumonia, CHF, and dementia with moderate
cognitive decline and delirium with psychotic features. The history from the hospital
indicated the resident was treated with antibiotics, fluid replacement, and was placed on
an antipsychotic due to the sudden development, one day after admission, of delirium
with psychotic features. The resident had a change in cognition, disorientation and was
less alert for prolonged periods and had attempted to remove the IV fluids and crawl out
of bed. After the resident's infection stabilized, he was discharged back to the nursing
home.

Upon readmission to the nursing home, the nurse practitioner contacted the hospitalist
by telephone to review the case. They agreed that if the resident did not exhibit
signs/symptoms of acute delirium over the next week, it would be reasonable to taper and
discontinue the antipsychotic medication. The nurse practitioner communicated this
information to the nursing staff and consultant pharmacist the nursing staff included
this information in the plan of care. After a week, no target behaviors were observed. The
medication was tapered and discontinued, with ongoing monitoring in place for the
potential recurrence of symptoms. The facility has met the criteria for compliance.

F329 - Level 4 Severity Non-compliance Example

An 89 year old male was re-admitted to the nursing home from the hospital. Admitting
diagnoses included pneumonia, CHF, and dementia with moderate cognitive decline and
delirium with psychotic features. The history from the hospital indicated the resident was
treated with antibiotics, fluid replacement, and was placed on an antipsychotic due to the
sudden development, one day after admission, of delirium with psychotic features. The
resident had a change in cognition, disorientation and was less alert for prolonged
periods and had attempted to remove the IV fluids and crawl out of bed. After the
resident's infection stabilized, he was discharged back to the nursing home.
 Approximately 4 months after nursing home readmission, the resident was still receiving
the antipsychotic medication. Staff was monitoring for the identified target behaviors;
however, documentation revealed that the resident had not exhibited any of the target
behaviors for over 3 months. The facility failed to evaluate and/or consider gradual dose
reductions, and had not attempted alternative approaches in an effort to discontinue the
medication. The consultant pharmacist had recommended gradual dose reductions, but
the physician had indicated that the medication was to be continued.

The record indicated that the resident was exhibiting orthostatic hypotension and was at
high risk for falling. In addition, he was no longer attending group activities as he was
sleeping off and on throughout the day. Staff had identified that the resident, who had
been ambulatory with one staff person at admission, was no longer ambulating, was
weaker and was in a recliner in his room during the day and evening. The resident had
several areas on his hips and coccyx which were identified as Stage III pressure ulcers;
he was losing weight due to decreased appetite and was drinking insufficient amounts of
fluids.

When interviewed, staff stated that they believed the resident's decline was related to his
dementia. They had not considered reducing or discontinuing the medication and failed
to recognize that the medication had been initially ordered for delirium in the hospital, a
condition that could potentially be time-limited and in many cases resolves completely.

The facility failed to evaluate for the ongoing indication of use of the antipsychotic after
symptoms were no longer present, had not monitored for the presence of adverse
consequences, had not attempted gradual dose reductions nor implemented any
behavioral interventions. The facility staff had not contacted the medical director to
evaluate the resident's response and consider discussing the case with the attending
physician. Following additional investigation, it was determined that the quality
assessment and assurance (QAA) committee did not conduct any oversight or monitoring
of residents who were receiving antipsychotics to assure that there were appropriate
clinical indications for use and that behavioral interventions and gradual dose
reductions were attempted.

Why is this Immediate Jeopardy?

This resident is now so compromised (he has developed pressure ulcers, has reduced
food and fluid intake, is experiencing blood pressure fluctuations and is at risk for falls)
that immediate action is required to prevent a serious illness or injury. While immediate
jeopardy may exist when only one resident is affected, in this case the lack of systems and
processes for review of psychopharmacological medications in residents with dementia
indicates that other residents on these medications could potentially be at risk for serious
harm as well.

F329 - Level 3 Severity Non-compliance Example
 An 89 year old male was re-admitted to the nursing home from the hospital. Admitting
diagnoses included pneumonia, heart failure, dementia with moderate cognitive decline
and delirium with psychotic features. The history from the hospital indicated the resident
was treated with antibiotics, fluid replacement, and was placed on an antipsychotic due
to the sudden development, one day after admission, of delirium with psychotic features.
The resident had a change in cognition, disorientation and was less alert for prolonged
periods and had attempted to remove the IV fluids and crawl out of bed. After the
resident's infection stabilized, he was discharged back to the nursing home.

Approximately 3 months after nursing home readmission, the resident was still receiving
the antipsychotic medication. The record indicated that the resident was now having
difficulty with mobility and was more dependent on staff for ADLs such as bed mobility
and transfers. Staff had identified that the resident was in a recliner in his room during
the day and evening and was drowsy more often throughout the day. Staff documented
that the resident had a small stage II pressure ulcer.

Staff was monitoring the identified target behaviors and documentation revealed the
resident had not exhibited the target behaviors for the past 3 months. However, the
facility failed to evaluate and/or consider gradual dose reductions, and had not
attempted behavioral interventions in an effort to discontinue the medication. Staff failed
to recognize that the medication had initially been ordered for delirium in the hospital, a
condition that could potentially be time-limited and in many cases resolves completely.

Why is this level 3 Severity?

The staff had not identified/evaluated the causal factors for the ongoing use of the
medication, nor the potential that the medication could have been contributing to the
resident's decline in ADLs, alertness and skin condition. Staff failed to recognize that the
medication had initially been ordered for delirium in the hospital, a condition that could
potentially be time-limited and in many cases resolves completely. The facility failed to
consider a gradual dose reduction. The resident had actual harm (ADL decline, stage II
pressure ulcer) that could have been related to the medication. However, this is not a
level 4 severity because the requirement for immediacy is not met.

Level 2 Severity

An 89 year old male was re-admitted to the nursing home sub-acute unit from the
hospital. Admitting diagnoses included pneumonia, heart failure, dementia with
moderate cognitive decline and delirium with psychotic features. The history from the
hospital indicated the resident was treated with antibiotics, fluid replacement, and was
placed on an antipsychotic due to the sudden development, one day after admission, of
delirium with psychotic features. The resident had a change in cognition, disorientation
and was less alert for prolonged periods and had attempted to remove the IV fluids and
crawl out of bed. After the resident's infection stabilized, he was discharged back to the
nursing home.
 Approximately 3 months after admission, the resident was still receiving the antipsychotic
medication and staff was monitoring for target behaviors and for the presence of adverse
consequences. The record revealed that the resident had not had any adverse
consequences and was no longer exhibiting the target behaviors. However, the facility
failed to evaluate and/or consider gradual dose reductions, and had not attempted
behavioral interventions in an effort to discontinue the medication. Staff failed to
recognize that the medication had been initially ordered for delirium in the hospital, a
condition that could potentially be time-limited and in many cases resolves completely.

Why is this level 2 Severity?
While the resident is at risk for potential for more than minimal harm from ongoing use
of an antipsychotic medication without a clear clinical indication, the staff did not
document any actual harm.

This is only one example. Specific evidence may differ in actual situations and surveyors
should evaluate each situation individually as no one example applies to every situation.